---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG039 - #0160729-A - Infestation"
date:           2016-10-05 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Sasha James, Martin Blackwood, Timothy Stoker, Jane Prentiss, Elias Bouchard, NotSasha, The Archivist, NotThem, The Table, Direct Statements, Worms, Bugs, Tape Recorders, Ghosts, Tunnels, Entomophobia, Arachnophobia, Scopophobia, Xenophobia, The Corruption, The Web, The Eye, The Stranger]
statement_of:   [Various, The Archivist, Martin Blackwood, Timothy Stoker, Elias Bouchard, Sasha James]
recorder:       [Direct, Various]
voiced:         [Sasha James, The Archivist, Martin Blackwood, Timothy Stoker, Jane Prentiss, Elias Bouchard, NotSasha]
episode_title:  Infestation
episode_number: '039'
case_number:    '0160729-A'
statement_date: 2016-07-29
recording_date: 2016-07-29
event_date:     2016-07-29
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag-39-infestation
pdf:            https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_qkgGqarpvhFukN_BlaFWuA-diZ4U9FB/view?usp=drivesdk
accessible_pdf: https://drive.google.com/file/d/14r280DcA_4cW4Wy8j0HuZV8ZIp2V5wPi/view?usp=drivesdk
official:       true
wiki_url:       https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_39:_Infestation
---

##### [CLICK]

##### [WRITHING WORM SOUNDS]

<span class="sasha">SASHA: What are you doing?!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Almost...</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Leave it, it's not -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I got it!</span>

##### [PULLS SOMETHING FROM THE MORASS]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Guys? Is everyth - OH CHRIST!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Shut up and get the extinguishers!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The CO2! Get the goddamn CO2!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Right, right, right, right, right, right, right, right, yep.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: NOW!</span>

##### [WRITHING CONTINUES AS EXTINGUISHER SPRAYS]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: There's too many...</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Just keep spraying!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: We need to go!</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Where?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh... Uh...</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Damn!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I just... uh... let, let me think!</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Do you see Prentiss? If we could get her - </span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I, I, I don't see her! I don't see her! I don't see her! I don't see her!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uhhh...</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: John?</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: John!?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: This way!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Come on! Come this way! This way, this way!</span>

##### [RUNNING, PURSUED BY WORMS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Erm...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: LOOK OUT!</span>

##### [CRASH]

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [SOUND CUTS IN MIDWAY THROUGH THE ARCHIVIST SCREAMING]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And... there we go. Recording again.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Did you get it?</span>

##### [PAINED CRY FROM ARCHIVIST AS SASHA EXTRACTS WORM WITH A SQUELCH]

<span class="sasha">SASHA: There. And I just want to point out that I didn't make this much of a fuss.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Breathing heavily, aggrieved tone]_ I think your removal was substantially cleaner.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: I'm still not sure why you have this. Drinking in the archives?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What? No, no, it's for worms.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: For pulling the worms out of people. Like now.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: You, er... what?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I used to carry around a knife, but I started thinking that, well, cutting into someone laterally wasn't really the most efficient way to get them out, and besides which, they seem to be quite slow burrowing in a straight line so, given their size, th-the corkscrew just seemed to be the better option.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Look, you guys got to go home every day, okay. I didn't! I've been thinking for a long time about what to do when... well, y'know, *this* happens.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Softly]_ Well... thank you.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: That's why we're here?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah. The room's sealed, I checked it myself when I moved in.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Climate controlled, as well. Strong door. Soundproof. _[Sigh]_ These old files are far better protected than we ever were. Alright, I'll grant you it's a good place to lay low, but - </span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: They could still come in through the air con.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Not easily. And... not en masse. It is actually safe.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Ha!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Except, of course, that we're trapped.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Ah... yeah.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Sorry.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Why record it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Before, in the office. It, it was stupid going for the tape recorder like that, and then when you dropped it out there - </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I said I was sorry. If I'd known Martin had another one stashed in here, I never would have...</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: No, it's, it's fine, just... I just don't understand. I thought you hated the damn thing. You're always going on about it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I do! I did. I just... I don't want to become a mystery. I refuse to become another goddamn mystery.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: What?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Look, even if you ignore the walking soil-sack out there, and the fact that we are probably minutes from death, there is still *so* much more happening here.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I'm not sure we can really ignore the - </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Every *real* statement just leads... deeper into something I don't even know the shape of yet. And to top it all, I still don't know what happened to Gertrude. Officially she's still missing, but Elias is no help and the police were pretty clear that the wait to call her dead is just a formality. If I die, wormfood or... something else, whatever, I'm going to make damn sure the same doesn't happen to me. Whoever takes over from me is going to know *exactly* what happened.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: You don't think that would... put them off?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Bitter laugh]_ I hope so. Only an idiot would stay in this job.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _[Chuckles]_ Wouldn't that make you an idiot?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes, Martin, that was my point.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Can you see what's going on out there?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Ish. When did we last clean these doors?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What can you see?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Worms seem to have backed off a bit. There's a few lurking in the corners. Ooh, ooh hey, there's the other tape recorder!</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Any sign of Prentiss?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No. No, it looks like they're... waiting, I think.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: For what?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I don't know. Tim, maybe?</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Oh god!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I think he was out at lunch.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Quick, someone call him. Tell him not to come back inside.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: There's no signal in here. We just have to hope he heard the noise.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: John, what did you mean by "real statements"?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You know what I mean. The ones that have weird wrinkles, or that just seem to have something solid to them. They all have one thing in common.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: They don't record digitally.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And we have to use the tape recorder. At this stage, if it records to my laptop I almost don't bother. I don't - </span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: There! There, there, there! I see him!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Tim. Tim's outside.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Oh god, he doesn't know. He doesn't see them.</span>

##### [SASHA AND MARTIN BOTH START CALLING OUT TO TIM]

<span class="sasha">SASHA: TIM, LOOK OUT!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It's soundproofed. He can't hear you!</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: What is he doing? No, Tim, just run! Leave it alone!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh no, no, no, no...</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Turn around. Just turn around.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh god. There she is, there she is.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Muttering]_ There's nothing we can do.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Ah, screw this.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What, Sasha, NO!</span>

##### [DOOR OPENS]

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Tim, look out!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Watch out for the tape - </span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="tim">TIM: ...still working? Ah, okay. Test, test. What are you doing on the floor? Huh. _[Imitates Archivist voice]_ Statement of Joe Spooky, regarding sinister happenings in the downtown old -</span>

##### [DOOR OPENS]

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Tim, look out!</span>

##### [WORM SOUND INTENSIFIES]

<span class="tim">TIM: Sasha?</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Behind you! Run!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Oh...</span>

<span class="prentiss">PRENTISS: _[Slowly intoning over worm sound]_ Do you hear their song?</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: TIM!</span>

##### [IMPACT, WORMS AND SCUFFLING]

##### [SASHA BREATHING HEAVILY AS SHE STUMBLES THROUGH DOORS]

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Damn it!</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. There we go. Martin, what do you see?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Hm? What?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I can't really stand up yet. I need you to describe what's going on. For the record.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Ah, yeah. Sure. So, um, Sasha tackled Tim and there was kind of a struggle, but she made it out of the Archives. That, that was about two minutes ago and she's gone to get help. P-Probably. I mean, she, she couldn't... she wouldn't just run so...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Did it look like any of the worms... got her before she left?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No. I don't think so. Tim neither, I think. It was hard to tell after she tackled him. There was just a lot of movement and, and shouting and, and wriggling...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Stay with it, Martin. Tim. What happened to Tim?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: They got split up and he ran into the office. You said that's where you made the hole. When you were recording. And they all came through, so... he's dead. He's dead in there and he's covered in worms and that's it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: We don't know that.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...Maybe.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Maybe, maybe he found the spare CO2.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Spare? What? Where? I never saw any.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, I, er... I, I hid them in old casefile boxes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What, why?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Well, so the worms didn't know they were there!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Look, I know it's stupid.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes. Yes it is. They're just... they're just unclassified parasites. They don't have consciousness, they can't plan, they're just an unthinking infection.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Seriously?!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Why do you *do* that?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Do what?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Push the sceptic thing so hard!? I mean, it made sense at first, but now? After everything we've seen, after everything you've read! I hear you recording statements and y-you just dismiss them. Your tear them to pieces like they're wasting your time, but half of the "rational" explanations you give are actually more far-fetched than just accepting it was a, a ghost or something. I mean for god's sake John, we're literally hiding from some kind of worm... queen... thing, how, how could you possibly still not believe!?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Of course, I believe. Of course I do. Have you ever taken a look at the stuff we have in Artefact storage? That's enough to convince anyone. But, but even before that... Why do you think I started working here? It's not exactly glamorous. I have... I've always believed in the supernatural. Within reason. I mean. I still think most of the statements down here aren't real. Of the hundreds I've recorded, we've had maybe... thirty, forty that are... that go on tape. Now, *those,* I believe, at least for the most part.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Then *why* do you -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Because I'm scared, Martin!. Because when I record these statements it feels... it feels like I'm being watched. I... I lose myself a bit. And then when I come back, it's like... like if I admit there may be any truth to it, whatever's watching will... know somehow. The scepticism, feigning ignorance. It just felt safer.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Well... It wasn't.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No. No, it wasn't.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Still, it's not *my* fault we're going to be eaten by worms. Speaking of, can you see anything?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Not much. They're just... there.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: How many?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Too many. And more keep coming up through the floor. I didn't think they could get through.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Prentiss?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No, I can't s... Oh, there she is.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What's she doing?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I don't know. She's messing with the boxes. She's holding one up and... ahh!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: She's... She's destroying them. Sort of.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sort of?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Well, I don't really know what that stuff coming out of her mouth is, but I think we should probably burn them.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Why are you here Martin?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Well, well, Prentiss is out there and you can't run so -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I mean at the Archive in general. Why haven't you quit?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Are you giving me my review now?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No... We're clearly doing a whole heart-to-heart thing and, truth be told, the question's been bothering me. You've been living in the Archives for four months, constant threat of... this. Sleeping with a fire extinguisher and a corkscrew. Even you must be aware that that's not normal for an archiving job? Why are you still here?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _[Considering]_ Don't really know. I just am. It didn't feel right to just leave. I've typed up a few resignation letters, but I just couldn't bring myself to hand them in.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I'm trapped here. It's like I can't... move on and the more I struggle, the more I'm stuck.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Martin...You're not, uh... You didn't die here, did you?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What? What? N-No... what?!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, I just... No, just the way you phrased that...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Made you think I was a *ghost?*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No... it's - </span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No, no... it's just that whatever web these statements have caught you in, well, I'm there too. We all are, I think. _[Sigh]_</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: A ghost? Really?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Tiredly]_ Shut up, Martin.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [FIRE ALARM IS SOUNDING]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Right, tell me again, please.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: You're kidding.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You did bring a tape recorder. I just thought John would appreciate as many supplementary recordings as possible. For the record.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Well, for the record, if we don't do something now, it won't matter either way.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: So... these are the worms he and Martin have been going on about?</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: The ones terrorising us for months? Yeah!</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: To be honest I always thought they were just... overreacting. Other staff have seen them around, but no-one's reported any aggressive behaviour or anything like that. You know how those two are... John puts on a good show, but sometimes I swear he's worse than Martin.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Look, Elias. I don't know what you think is going on, but I have just seen thousands of... fleshworms pouring out of the wall! God knows how long they've been hiding! Tim might be dead, and the others...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Of course. The fire alarm was a good move, but it does mean most staff have evacuated, so we'll deal have to with them ourselves.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: There are thousands of them, Elias.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Not quite what I meant. On John's insistence I recently changed the Archive's fire suppression system to use carbon dioxide. Should have done it years ago, really - </span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: So why hasn't it gone off?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Because there isn't an actual fire.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Right, right. Can we set it off manually? I think John's got a lighter somewhere.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: He's not smoking again, is he? Anyway, it shouldn't be necessary. There is a manual release, a few floors down.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Wait. Wait. Will it hurt Martin or John?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Almost certainly. Er, I'm not a doctor, but I know dumping a lot of CO2 on people isn't generally considered a good idea. I really don't want to have to find another Archivist so quickly after Gertrude, but from what you say... it might be a mercy. You know the situation best, so...?</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Let's go.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [FIRE ALARM CAN BE HEARD... AS CAN SOUND OF BANGING ON WALL]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I thought that wall was meant to be solid?!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So did I. We don't have any sort of weapon, do we?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I mean... I mean, I suppose we could use - </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Don't say the corkscrew!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Okay.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: How many of them are outside of the door?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I don't know. I can't see because the window is covered in worms.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. Right. Damn. Well, Martin I guess this is - </span>

##### [SOUND OF PLASTERBOARD AND TILE BREAKING]

<span class="tim">TIM: Hi guys!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Tim!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Tim?! What the hell? I thought... how did you...?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You made it!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Funny story really. I ran into the office, worms everywhere, horrible death and everything, tripped and fell in some boxes and there were like 20 cans of gas in there.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Are, are you alright? You seem a bit...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Fine! Fine! Gas... bit light-headed. Not a lot of ventilation in the tunnels. Come on!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: In-Into the tunnels?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Yeah! Actually, not that many worms in there anymore. I think they've mostly gone into the Archive. Although the ones down here are faster for some reason. And quieter.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You're not bitten, are you?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: No, I don't think so! Have a look!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes, alright Tim, you look fine. Put them back on, please.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Can can you walk, John?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, I can limp.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Then let's go!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Martin, could you pass me the tape recorder?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Sure. I think it's running out, though.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Fine. I suppose I can turn it back on when we're being eaten alive.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Why *do* you have a second tape recorder, Martin?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, um... well, I've been using it to record myself. I write poetry and I think the tapes have a sort of... low-fi charm.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I see.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="sasha">SASHA: ##### [SPEECH IS ECHOED FROM THE ROOM AS SHE WALKS]</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: _[With some despondency in tone]_ Okay, John. I know you'll want to know what's been happening. If you're still alive after this. The worms are on the upper floor. Not as many as down in the Archive, but enough.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: I set the fire alarm off, so everyone's evacuated except me and Elias. I didn't see any signs of the fire brigade, but I haven't been near a window in a while. There was a... I guess you'd call it a... a wave of worms. I got cut off from Elias. I hope he made it to the fire system, but who knows. Maybe everyone's dead already.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: I've had to retreat into Artefact Storage. That should tell you something about how bad it is out there.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: God, I hate this place.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Did I ever tell you I first joined the Institute as a practical researcher? I had to analyse and investigate all the stuff in here. Take notes after sleeping in the rusted chair, write in the memory book, all that sort of thing. I transferred after three months. Would've quit, but couldn't afford to back then.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Never understood why they keep this stuff secret. I mean, we've, we've enough here to send any sceptic packing, but it's just locked away. I... I asked Elias about it once, but he just muttered something about funding and mission statements. He's good at changing the subject, isn't he?</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Sorry. I'm rambling. No worms, though, so that's good.</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: Oh, hey. I've found... I've found that table you were talking about. Don't really see what all the fuss is about. Just a... basic... optical illusion. Nothing special... just... just a... wait...</span>

<span class="sasha">SASHA: _[Hushed and panicked]_ John! John, I think there's someone here. Hello? I see you. Show yourself.</span>

##### [DISTORTION INTENSIFIES]

##### [SASHA SCREAMS, TAPE RECORDER DROPS]

##### [DISTORTION FADES TO A CRACKLE]

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: _[Words warped]_ Hello?</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: I see you.</span>

##### [FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: _[Clearly]_ I see you.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [WATER DRIPS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Update. I don't know how long we've been down here. These tunnels are a maze, and we don't know where we are. We have four of the -</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Martin's gone.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm getting to that. Martin has disappeared. Tim was right about there being fewer worms down here, but they are much faster. More aggressive. None of us have been hit yet but... during one of the more alarming encounters, Martin ran off.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: He thought we were behind him, I think.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: He didn't think at all. Tim was with me, and my leg slowed me down. He must have taken a turn we didn't see or something. We lost him. But, Tim has managed to find what looks to be an actual trapdoor, so... we won't need to bludgeon our way through any more drywall. I'm recording this in case -</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: In case the trapdoor opens back into the Archives and Prentiss is there to kill us.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: In as many words, yes. Tim?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Alright.</span>

##### [TRAPDOOR IS PUSHED OPEN TO SOUND OF FIRE ALARM AND LOTS OF WRITHING]

<span class="prentiss">PRENTISS: Archivist.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Ah.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Shit.</span>

##### [CLICK]