---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG079 - #0170216-A - Hide and Seek"
date:           2017-08-23 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Martin Blackwood, Timothy Stoker, The Archivist, NotSasha, Michael, Elias Bouchard, Mystery Figure, Jurgen Leitner, Adelard Dekker, The Table, The Tunnels, Bodysnatching, Doors, Mazes, Getting Lost, Tape Recorders, Poetry, Stories, Hope, Mistrust, Scepticism, Paranoia, Last Words, Contracts, Prisons, Blunt Instruments, The Unknowing, The Rituals, Scopophobia, Xenophobia, Arachnophobia, Maniaphobia, The Eye, The Stranger, The Spiral, The Web]
statement_of:   [NotSasha, NotThem]
statement_to:   [The Archivist]
recorder:       [Direct, Various]
voiced:         [Martin Blackwood, Timothy Stoker, NotSasha, The Archivist, Michael, Mystery Figure, Jurgen Leitner]
episode_title:  Hide and Seek
episode_number: '079'
case_number:    '0170216-A'
statement_date: 2017-02-16
recording_date: 2017-02-16
event_date:     2017-02-16
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag79-hideandseek
pdf:            https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BwU6M4sYgbYdRHlOS2pGZnh0RFE/view?usp=drivesdk
accessible_pdf: https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BwU6M4sYgbYdVlZjeDV4X3pRMzA/view?usp=drivesdk
official:       true
wiki_url:       https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_79:_Hide_and_Seek
---

<span class="martin">MARTIN: > Streets. By Martin K. Blackwood.</span>
<span class="martin">MARTIN: > </span>
<span class="martin">MARTIN: > The streets are hard in London.</span>
<span class="martin">MARTIN: > </span>
<span class="martin">MARTIN: > Paved in old secrets, the hot smell after the rains.</span>
<span class="martin">MARTIN: > </span>
<span class="martin">MARTIN: > The threads of people walking, living, lovi - </span>

##### [CLICK]

##### [FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You're sure about this? He did tell us to go home...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Yeah, and then he said, "Sorry for everything". Something's up.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You don't think he's going to... y'know...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I don't know. But he's going to do **something**, and it's going to be bad. And I don't mean like 'sneaking a cigarette' bad. Like properly bad.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So we need to help him?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: We need to **stop** him.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And... we needed my tape recorder because...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Because something tells me we're going to need evidence by the end of today. I don't want to wind up in court without something to back me up.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Court?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Yeah. Er, tribunal if we're lucky, inquest if we're not.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You did use a new tape, didn't you?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Yeah, I took one off the pile.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Was it blank or... Tim?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: It was blank.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: He's never going to speak to us again.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Don't get my hopes up.</span>

##### [DOOR OPENS]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: John?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Aaaaaand he's gone. Thought so.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You don't think he's going to...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I don't know, Martin! I think he's going fully off the deep end, is what I think. If he hasn't already.</span>

##### [DOOR CLOSES]

##### [FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Look, I know you don't like him...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Got that, did you?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: But I'm not going to help you get him fired.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Martin! What do you think is happening here? This isn't office politics. It's not like he's had one too many at the Christmas party and started ranting about the Greeks. Whatever is happening here it's literally supernatural.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Really? Isn't that a little... y'know?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: No, it isn't "a little y'know". There is something in this place, and it's messing up our heads. It watches us all the time. It stops me quitting. I'm pretty sure it would stop Elias firing Jon even if he decided to try actually running the place for once.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You're sure you don't just want to stay?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I'm sure.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: But, like, deep down -</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: No.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So you really think the Institute is, what, haunted?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I used to. Now I think it's worse.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Worse how?</span>

##### [CRASH OF DOOR BREAKING]

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: _[Heavily distorted]_ Jooooohhhn!</span>

##### [SOUNDS OF TIM &amp; MARTIN BEING SURPRISED]

<span class="tim">TIM: Oh god! What the hell was that?!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN (BACKGROUND): Oh no nonononono!</span>

##### [A ROAR, SOUNDS OF FRANTIC BREATHING, RUNNING FOOTSTEPS AND SCUTTLING MOVEMENT]

##### [TRAPDOOR OPENS]

##### [RAPID, SINISTER SCUTTLING MOVEMENT RECEDES]

##### [SILENCE, AS TIM AND MARTIN TRY TO REGAIN THEIR BREATH]

<span class="tim">TIM: What the hell was that?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: It... er... It looked... It kinda looked...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Oh don't say it.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: It did, though, didn't it?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: That wasn't Sasha.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No. No, no, it wasn't.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You don't... you don't think - </span>

<span class="tim">TIM: He told her to go home. Like us!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: And she did.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: It went into the tunnels.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Nope. No. Not happening.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: We can't just leave him.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Yeah, we can.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I'm going.</span>

##### [FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="tim">TIM: Martin!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Mar... I'm not coming down there with...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Damn it. Fine.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Damn. Damn damn damn damn DAMN!</span>

##### [HAND SLAPS STONE]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... I took Michael's door. It was that or face Sa... the thing that was pretending to be Sasha. It opened into the tunnels. The tunnels. Not exactly the escape I was hoping for. I'm hardly surprised, must be its idea of a joke. Still, it is... it is a head start I suppose. I have no idea where in the tunnels I am. Or how far down.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: At least it didn't leave me trapped in some corridor hellmaze... a different corridor hellmaze, at least.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So I suppose I just... I just wait for now. I don't think it's going to just give up, and I can't risk attracting its attention. It might already be down here with me. Just stay quiet.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Stay hidden.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: God, I'm an idiot. Smash the table, kill the monster, stupid! Lazy, sloppy assumption. Of course the table was binding it. The table is webs and spiders. Spiders are something else. They don't help each other, they oppose, they... they weaken. It was caught in a web, and I... All the pieces were there. And I just... I couldn't see it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't know how much tape I have left. I'm going to stop recording. To conserve it. If - </span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: _[DISTANT]_ Jooooohhhnnnn...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh Christ.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What now? We need to hurry.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Shhh!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: ...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I thought I heard something up ahead.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I didn't hear anything. Why, do you think it was the Sasha-thing?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Will you shut up about that. It wasn't anything like her.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No, I know, but I mean... like, if you really stretched her out...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: We're never going to find him down here.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So go get some help.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Er... Elias is probably still in his office.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I thought you said he was a waste of a suit.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Yeah, well he's better than nothing.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: If you want to go, I understand.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I... I'm not just going to leave you down here.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You were all about quitting.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Oh, for God's sake, this isn't about you.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: It never is.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Alright, fine. Fine. What do **you** want? What's **your** light at the end of these spooky damn tunnels? And don't say 'everyone happy forever', because that's not happening.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: ...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Well?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I don't know. I don't know! I want to find out what's going on. I want to save John. I want everyone to be fine and, you know what? If we were all happy that wouldn't actually **be** the end of the world.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Fine.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No, no it's not "fine". You've been going on and on and on about how alone you feel because John's not taking your feelings into account while he's having his breakdown, but you're just doing the same thing. We've all been going through this, Tim, but you're the only one who's been running away.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Ok, ok. Look, let's keep going. There's nobody here.</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Yes there is.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Stay back!</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: No.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Who are you?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I'm Michael. Did the Archivist not tell you about me?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Good. Surprises are better.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: What are you doing down here?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Probably watching the Archivist die. Maybe not. Either way is amusing. I... I think it's called 'a sport'.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: What?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I think I might also kill you. It would be easier than killing the Archivist. None of you are protected down here.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No, no, now hang on...</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: You are going to try and help him. And I want to see what happens without you there.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Martin...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No, no, okay, because there's two of us and there's one of you, okay. He's not killing anyone!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Martin, look at his hands!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Go!</span>

##### [SINISTER DOOR OPENS]

##### [FOOTSTEPS]

##### [MICHAEL LAUGHS]

##### [SINISTER DOOR SHUTS]

##### [HEAVY BREATHING]

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Distorted]_ Where the hell are we?</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [HEAVY BREATHING AND SOFTLY CREEPING FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I have no idea where I am. There were stairs. I, I, I kept going lower. No arrows pointing down, though, which is... good? I don't know. I found a weapon. Of sorts.</span>

##### [RINGING OF A METAL PIPE AGAINST A WALL]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't know if it'll help. I mean, it's not going to help. I can't fight it with a pipe. I'm tired just carrying it. But it does make me feel a bit better, so... so that's something.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I keep thinking I might have gotten away, but I think it can sense me... uh, at least a bit. I can hide for now, I think, but I don't know for how long. I can't kill it. I heard the tape. It erased Sasha, just like that. Deleted her from the world. I just hope this tape works the same, that my voice remains intact. Even if I'm gone, even it wears a face that people think is mine, pulls me apart, becomes me. Listen, it's not me! Whoever hears this: it is **not me.**</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't even remember what she looks like. Even now that I know, now I've seen it twisted and... I still don't remember her. The only face I can picture is...</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: _[Distant]_ Jooooohhhhn... Jooooohhhhn... Come out, come out, wherever you are.</span>

##### [SCARED BREATHING]

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: It's okay John; it's Sasha. Reliable old Sasha.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Nothing to be afraid of.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: ...</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: You seem stressed, John. You've been under a lot of pressure. You should talk about it. Have a real good chat. You like talking, don't you, John?</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: ...</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: I'm going to wear you, John. I'm going to wear everything you are. Like you never existed. No-one will even know. And it will hurt. Oh, yes, it will hurt. It hurt Sasha.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Shut up!</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: _[Close and distorted]_ There you are.</span>

##### [HEAVY BREATHING AS IF RUNNING]

##### [WEIRD SCUTTLING MOVEMENT]

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [Dialogue is very distorted until next CLICK]

<span class="tim">TIM: Where the hell are we?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I don't know. I thought... I thought the door led further down.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I don't think we're under the Institute anymore.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What was that thing?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I'm trying not to think about it. It makes my head feel weird.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Well? Wh... which way do you think?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Er... Right. Let's go right.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _[SIGH]_ Fine. I don't think this thing's working properly. It k-keeps making this weird noise.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [HEAVY BREATHING SLOWS]

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: I'm glad we got a chance to run, John. It makes it so much more satisfying.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Do you have any idea how long I watched you? You and your little... acolytes. I **hated** it.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Let me tell **you** a story. You like stories; we can even call it a statement if you want.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Once upon a time there was a monster, but no one realised. Sometimes someone did and then they were scared, so that was good. But one day a nasty man came along. A nasty man who tricked the monster and wrapped it all in webs and tied it to a table.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: So the monster got its friends to carry the table all around, and it still got to take faces and scare people. Then one day it was sent to the house of its enemy, which had the biggest eyes you ever did see. The monster was sent there to steal all its secrets, but it was sad because it couldn't scare anyone any more.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Then finally, after what seemed like forever, a stupid, arrogant, little man cut the webs and set the monster free. Free to kill and scare whoever it wanted.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: So thank you. I did leave what clues I could but I never dared hope you would actually release me.</span>

##### [MENACING SATISFIED LAUGHTER]

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: I must confess, though, I almost enjoyed watching you scurry around. Desperately missing the point. At least I knew what I was looking for. You really aren't even a shadow of your predecessor. You're nothing. Even I would make a better Archivist than you.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Maybe I will.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: You'll miss the Unknowing, of course, but you wouldn't understand it anyway.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Whispering]_ I'm sorry. Martin, Tim... Sasha. I'm so sorry. I should have... I didn't... I'm sorry.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: God, I'm so sorry.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: I wonder, if I wear you, will I really become the Archivist? Rob the eye of its pupil?</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Probably not. Better to just kill you I think.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Yes. I think that would be best.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Whispering]_ Please forgive me. If you're still alive... if... if you hear this. Get as far away from the Magnus Institute - </span>

##### [GASP]

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Found you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No. Please...</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Sorry, John, but this is -</span>

##### [SOUND OF STONE AND BRICK SUDDENLY SHIFTING. A SCREAM FROM THE NOT!SASHA.]

##### [SILENCE]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

##### [SLOW FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="mystery-figure">MYSTERY FIGURE: Mr. Sims?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes.</span>

<span class="mystery-figure">MYSTERY FIGURE: I think it's time we had a talk.</span>

##### [CLICK]