---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG082 - #0171802-B - The Eyewitnesses"
date:           2017-11-29 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Martin Blackwood, Timothy Stoker, Elias Bouchard, Calvin Benchley, The Archivist, Jurgen Leitner, Police, Child Harm, Scopophobia, The Eye, The Slaughter]
statement_of:   [Alice 'Daisy' Tonner]
statement_to:   [Extracted]
recorder:       [Elias Bouchard]
voiced:         [Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Martin Blackwood, Timothy Stoker, Elias Bouchard]
episode_title:  The Eyewitnesses
episode_number: '082'
case_number:    '0171802-B'
statement_date: 2017-02-18
recording_date: 2017-02-18
event_date:     
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag82-theeyewitnesses
pdf:            https://drive.google.com/file/d/12Mu6ME7DdBxkqzomt9IAhHhhSipvDVru/view?usp=drivesdk
accessible_pdf: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1E8EGLPRslYEdL47opHigmVaedeCLmRsC/view?usp=drivesdk
official:       true
wiki_url:       https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_82:_The_Eyewitnesses
---

##### [CLICK]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Fine.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Sorry. I just... I feel more comfortable with it on.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I said it was fine.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah, right, so, um... Statement of Martin Blackwood, interviewed by Detective D- Tonner. February 18th, two thousand and- </span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What are you doing?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I... I'm making a statement. Isn't that what you want? My statement?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: No. I just need you to answer the question.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh. Okay. I mean, y-you wanted a statement last time. About...it was... when I found Gertrude. Or at least your partner did.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Didn't know who the killer was last time. This time it's simpler. And... And Basira's not a police officer anymore.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh. Look, y-you're sure it was him? I mean, I know, I know... but I can't... He wouldn't!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I... I don't think it was him.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You think we should be looking for other suspects?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Wh- N-No! No, I mean, not- Look, that tape that we gave you...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Has a lot of distortion, some screaming and a recording of you seeing the body, you claim for the first time. Always suspicious when two suspects are each other's only alibi.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I told you that there was someone else there. It may...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Which one should we be asking, by the way? The man with the knife hands or the woman trapped in your 'magic corridors'?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: It happened.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Well, if your witnesses appear back in this universe, maybe the situation will change.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Otherwise, it's an easy choice: answer my question or I pin it on you.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Y-You can't! Th-That's not how this works.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Is it?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Let me tell you how this works, Mr. Blackwood. I've got a hell of a workload, no partner and full operational discretion to make this whole situation go away. That means you help me or I make things very unpleasant for you.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: But you're the police!</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: So, help me stop a killer. Where is Jonathan Sims?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _[Pause]_ I don't know.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Don't lie to me.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I don't!</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Everyone I've talked to says you and him were close.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What? _[Inordinately pleased]_ Did they? I mean... I mean, who said that? I, I, I guess, I mean, more than the rest, yeah okay, but- </span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Did he have any **other** friends? Anyone outside the Institute he might have talked to?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I... No, I don't really... think so. I don't, don't think he had much of a life outside of this place.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: There's nowhere? No-one he might turn to?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: He never talked about his friends, worked all hours... No. I'm sorry.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[Sigh]_ Right. Get lost. Send Stoker in.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: That's it?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Unless you know something else.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What about Sasha?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[Sigh]_ No sign of her body here or in the tunnels. No any evidence she was the victim of violence. Maybe she saw the murder, or caught Sims smashing up the storage room, and took off. Maybe she's with him. Or he killed her too. Either way, quicker I find him, the better for her, so if there is anything you're not telling me...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No. I just... Bring her back safe, okay?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I'll send Tim in.</span>

##### [DOOR OPENS]

##### [DOOR CLOSES]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Tim Stoker.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: ...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: That your name?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Yeah.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You want me to leave this running?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: No. You can turn it off.</span>

##### [CLICK]

##### [CLICK]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Hm.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Huh. Seems about right. Look, just... just leave it on or do you want to do this somewhere else?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: It's fine.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Suppose you want my statement?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I just need anything you know on the possible whereabouts of Jonathan Sims. Anywhere he feels safe, any friends or associates he might turn to?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: No.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You're sure? Nothing that might help me find him? If you're hiding something out of some sort of loyalty...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Bitter laugh]_ Look, if I knew, I'd tell you. We haven't talked too much lately.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: And you haven't seen Sasha James either?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: No. You think she's dead?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Can't say yet. But looking at it, yeah, I think Sims killed her too.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Sounds right. More bodies for the archive.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You've got quite a turnover. Anything you want to tell me about it?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Snort]_ Yeah, don't take a job here.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Oh... _[amused grunt]_ You're done, Mr Stoker. Send in Bouchard.</span>

##### [DOOR OPENS]

##### [DOOR CLOSES]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Elias Bouchard?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Correct.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Sit.</span>

##### [CHAIR SHIFTS]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: So, what can I do to help? You want my account? My sworn testimony? My statement?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What is...? No. Just a couple of questions.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Of course.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I don't suppose you know how to turn this off?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Oh, leave it running. I'm sure John will want to review the tapes when he gets back.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: So you don't think he did it?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Killed a man in cold blood? Certainly not. He doesn't have the stomach for it.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: People can surprise you.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: In John's case, I rather hope so.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You want him to be a murderer?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Have you had any luck identifying the body yet?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: ...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Well?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I'm the one asking the questions.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Very well, then I suppose this interview is over. Unless you care to arrest me?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[Pause]_ The victim isn't someone we have on file. Doesn't match any missing persons. Still a John Doe.</span>

##### [ELIAS CHUCKLES]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I say something funny?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Nothing. Just remembering an old joke.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Right. So. Do you know anything about the current whereabouts of Jonathan Sims? Anywhere he might be staying? Any friends he might have contacted?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I do.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: ...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Well?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I was wondering. Is it worth it? Operating the way that you do?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Just answer the question.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Does the lack of oversight make up for the lack of support?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What do you know about the current whereabouts of Jonathan Sims?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Everything. I know exactly where he is and who is with him. But I don't think I'm going to tell you.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I can drag this down to the station if you want, you weird little freak. Maybe Sims didn't do this alone.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Please, Detective Tonner. You don't want this to happen in the police station any more than I do.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Your superiors, exactly how aware are they of what you're doing right now?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: They know enough. They got a call and sent me down here. That's how it works.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: And then they don't ask any questions, as long as you keep it far away from official police channels.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Except your partner leaving has made you sloppy. No notes, no proper interrogations, no back-up of any sort. You've barely collected a scrap of evidence from the scene and made no official record of the dozens of interviews you've done with the Institute staff. You haven't even followed up on any of the other potential suspects or leads, and shown no interest at all in the fate of Sasha James.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: All you care about is where John is, because you've decided on a course of action, and **you're** going to follow it through.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: ...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: If you're right, what's to stop me kicking your teeth in? No cameras down here, remember. I can always just turn off that little recorder of yours. Smash it up.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Very true. However, you aren't going to do that, Detective. Because of Calvin Benchley.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Calvin Benchley. You recognise the name, don't you Alice? You see, I know what you did.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I... don't know what you're talking about.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: No? The scar may have faded, but you haven't forgotten. Did it itch, just a little, when you were burying him?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You shut the hell up, or I swear I'll kill you.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: A genuine threat, I'm sure, but right now what you're really trying to figure out is, if I have any evidence that could make it back your people. It seems impossible, of course, how could I? But you just don't know. So many impossible things happen in here, in this strange musty place.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Shut up!</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Here's what's going to happen. I'm going to make a statement. Your statement. To prove to you what I know, and because I want John to hear it someday. And when it's over, you are going to leave. Because if you don't, I'll make sure your superiors know all about every nasty little thing you've done in the name of peace and order, and I'll make sure they are subject to the scrutiny they so desperately want to avoid. More importantly, I'll make sure they know it has all been exposed because of you. Is that clear?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: ...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I will take that as a yes.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: If you're smart, you'll go back to the police station and put forward some half-baked cover-up for what happened to your mystery corpse and leave it at that. But I don't think you are smart, so in many ways I'm excited to find out what you do next.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: ...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Statement of Alice Tonner, regarding the crimes and death of Calvin Benchley. Statement never given.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Don't.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): Everyone calls me Daisy. I like that because it sounds so gentle, and I'm the only one left who knows about the scar on my back. It doesn't really look like a daisy, more like a starburst, but it's what the doctor said when I got it, so that's how I've always seen it. It makes me feel strong, to know that the soft nickname everyone calls me comes from a bloody wound. And I like to feel strong. To be in control.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I'm going to kill you, someday.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): When I was eleven, I had a best friend, and his name was Calvin Benchley. We didn't hang out at school much because his friends said I couldn't play with them because I was a girl. But every day after getting home we'd go to the nearby park and play. It was small, just a scrap of grass and dirt, but if you hopped the fence to the south you could get into the cemetery, and if you went the other way you got into an old building site. The fence on that side was broken and jagged, but it collapsed enough that it was easy to climb over it, into the half-built structure.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): Our parents had forbidden us from playing there. It was collapsing, as well as being a known hang-out for vagrants and druggies. We would take turns daring each other to go in there. That day, I dared him. That's why it was my fault.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Shut up. It wasn't my fault.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): We had been in the park, when there had been shouting from the building site. Crashes. Violence. Then a long silence.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): I dared him to take a look, and when he didn't want to, I started making fun of him. So in he went. When he didn't come back, I decided he was just trying to spook me. But after fifteen minutes I decided he wasn't. I wanted to run away and get my mum, but I was frightened of getting in trouble, so instead I followed Calvin over the fence.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): Inside were the first two dead bodies I had ever seen. They looked like they had attacked each other with broken glass. One lay impaled on a broken bottle, still holding the long shard of glass that jutted out of the other's throat. There was blood everywhere. I felt a rush of fear, and a strange sort of excitement.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You can't know that.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): On a broken staircase above them, stood Calvin staring at me with vacant eyes. Standing behind him I saw something. A hunched figure. I think it was naked. I couldn't see anything except pale flesh and the vivid red of cuts and injuries. Every inch of its body appeared to be covered in open wounds, but no blood seemed to flow from them.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): The thing was utterly still, save for a lipless, scabby mouth, which moved so fast it was almost a blur, silently mouthing words that only Calvin could hear. I know they were for him, because with each movement of its jaw, the thing's long, pointed black tongue would shoot out and flick itself into his ear. He was completely expressionless as that crooked, cut-up figure whispered to him and flicked at his ear with a barbed tongue.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: No.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): Then Calvin's eyes turned to me. Without hesitation or expression he began running, sprinting right at me. I tried to get away, but he was faster, and slammed into me, pushing off my feet and into the rusted fence behind me. There was an explosion of pain in my back, as jagged metal embedded itself in my shoulder, and then it went dark. The last thing I remember before the hospital was the fierce pride on Calvin's face as he stood there.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): No-one believed me about what happened. Calvin said that I had tripped and fallen, and that was the story everyone accepted, but after that he was different. Moody. He started getting into fights. Everyone just assumed he was turning into a teenager, but six children at my school were seriously injured or killed by the time he left for university.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): All accidents, of course, nothing that would have pointed to him. But I was always careful around him, the daisy-scar on my back a constant reminder that we were not friends, that he was no longer to be trusted. I told people, but he seemed to feed on the uneasy glances of his classmates, and took great pleasure in scaring them further.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): Even after school, I kept an eye on him but I couldn't believe he had never been arrested. I later got a look at his file and found out that he had been, but they'd never been able to make anything stick. He was smart and careful. We once almost nailed him for aggravated assault, but the victims changed their story and said they were the ones who attacked him.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You've made your point.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): Six years ago, Calvin Benchley became the first human being I murdered. I beat him round the head as he was coming out of a bar, drove him to my usual spot and shot him five times in the chest with a handgun taken from the evidence lock-up. He didn't beg for his life. He didn't say a word. I don't think he even recognised me. He was harder to get rid of than the vampires, but I managed it.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): And nobody asked any questions at all. He was a scumbag, and nobody wants to risk getting a Section 31. He was the first human I dealt with like that, but he certainly wasn't the last.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Do I need to go on, Detective Tonner?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: ...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Good. Feel free to see yourself out. If you take any action against myself or this Institute, I will ensure the police become aware of your crimes in a way that cannot ignored or covered up.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I leave the matter of Jonathan Sims up to you, though I will not tell you where he is. I suggest you close the case and move on, but if you find yourself unable to do so, my advice is to kill him quickly. There's no telling what he might be capable of.</span>

##### [CHAIR MOVES AND DOOR OPEN.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: One day, someone is going to kill you. I really hope it's me.</span>

##### [DOOR SLAMS]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Good day, Detective.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: \- but she looked like she'd seen a, well, you know...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: So?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So, I'm just saying, she spends all that time in there with Elias, and then leaves like that? Maybe he told her something.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Or maybe she just hates it here. Like a normal person.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Maybe they said something about Sasha, y'know?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: She's dead, Martin. Come on! Even *you're* not that blind. He got her too.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Don't you say that. Don't you *dare* say that!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I didn't. It was that detective. Y-You try talking to her about it?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: She didn't care. Just wanted to know where he was.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Makes sense.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No. No it doesn't! Nothing about this makes sense!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I don't know who that old man was, but John would *never* hurt Sasha.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Fine. If it wasn't him, it **must** have been that thing we saw.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: It was only for a second. And what with that weird finger guy, and the door... I mean, it d-didn't look like her.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: It did. You **know** it did. Maybe it ate her. Maybe it was her. Maybe she was always some messed up mutant and we just never noticed. Could have been 'Michael'. I mean, it basically told us it was working with John. When you disappear and there are more than three different ways you might be dea- </span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Look, I'm sorry. It's just this place. _[Sigh]_ Bad things happen and eventually you don't come back.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: T-Tim...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I'm going to go lie down.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Tim, we've got to talk about this!</span>

##### [DOOR OPENS]

##### [MARTIN SIGHS]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Huh. [Calling after] Tim? Tim, did you turn the reco- </span>

##### [CLICK]