---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG061 - #0160112 - Hard Shoulder"
date:            2017-04-19 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Breekon and Hope, Tom, The Archivist, Basira Hussain, Trevor Herbert, Police, Vampires, The Coffin, Cameras, Coffins, Compulsion, Rain, Xenophobia, Claustrophobia, Scophobia, The Stranger, The Buried, The Eye]
statement_of:    [Alice 'Daisy' Tonner]
statement_to:    [The Archivist]
recorder:        [Direct]
voiced:          [The Archivist, Alice 'Daisy Tonner']
episode_title:   Hard Shoulder
episode_number:  '061'
case_number:     '0160112'
statement_date:  2016-12-01
recording_date:  2016-12-01
event_date:      2002-07-24
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag61hardshoulder
pdf:             
accessible_pdf:  
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Re1iT6_fXleCk__97Lry3-SftICXFiS4iokYVVAFGEw/edit?usp=sharing
official:        false
unofficial:      https://snarp.tumblr.com/
unofficial_name: snarp
wiki_url:        https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_61:_Hard_Shoulder
---

##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You don't mind if I record this, do you?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Knock yourself out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: 'course, if anyone else ever hears it...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You'll arrest me.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[heh]_ No.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...Right. Um, so, you came to deliver one of the tapes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: From Basira?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The uh, the, the audio tapes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So... can I have it? Please?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I'm thinking.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. Um, I thought you needed me to check them?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You don't get it, do you?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I'm not sure I follow.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: The tapes. Why she was giving them to you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: She, uh. She wanted my help.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[small, exasperated laugh/huff]_</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You, uh, you didn't have a tape player at your station.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: She thought you did it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?!</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: We both did.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Wait, you thought I killed Gertrude?!</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Whuh - uh - I - *why?*</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[exasperated laugh/sigh]_ *Look* at you: you're obsessed with it, jumpy as hell, and the only person who benefited from her death.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well uh, I... I mean. I *didn't.*</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yeah. I know.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[stressed, exasperated exhalation]_</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Finally got IT to clean up the CCTV for the week she disappeared. No cameras in the archive, but we got plenty of footage of you. Watched your movements that whole week. You didn't kill her.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't - what does this have to do with the tapes?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Didn't have enough to hold you. Basira was worried you were going to run.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So, what - you fed me a couple of tapes to keep me around?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yeah.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And, now you know I'm innocent...?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Hm. I reckon we should cut you off, but Basira's soft. She likes you. _[heh]_ No idea *why.* Maybe she keeps feeding you tapes, doesn't involve me, I don't plan on seeing or hearing *anything* about it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well... thank you, Detective Tonner -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Daisy.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Thank you, Daisy.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Sure.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...If you don't mind me asking, hhhow long have you been sectioned, now -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[angrily]_ I *do* mind -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: ...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[quickly]_ 14 years.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...I don't suppose you'd like to make a statement?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[sullen]_ 'bout what?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Whatever you like. 14 years - you must have seen a *number* of paranormal things.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: And you want me to tell you about them.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh - IIIIII -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Okay.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[stammering]_ What?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Okay. I'll give you a statement about - how I got my first Section 31.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: ...You look surprised.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I mean, I was largely asking as a formality, Basira didn't give the impression you were the sharing sort.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Maybe you caught me in a good mood.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right, well... good. Do you need me to go over our non-disclosure policy -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Not as long as you understand my policy: if it gets out, I'll break every bone in your body.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[sigh, muttering]_ There are worse things that could happen to them...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[confused, possibly offended]_ *What?*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh, nothing. Uh, statement of Detective Alice "Daisy" Tonner of the London Metropolitan Police. What's the subject?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Traffic stop of a delivery van on the M6 near Preston, afternoon of... 24th July, 2002.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Recorded live from subject, 1st December, 2016.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement begins.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): This was a long time ago. I'd been police for two years. I wasn't even with the Met back then. I was based up in Lancashire with a road policing unit. This is before the Highways Agency took most of the grunt work, so there was plenty to do. None of it much fun, but it needed doing. Booking drunk drivers were my favorite. I always hoped they'd refuse the breathalyzer, maybe even took a swing at me. Nothing funnier than a drunk asshole trying to avoid being arrested.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): I usually rode with Isaac Masters. He'd been working with the RPU a lot longer than I had, and was even harsher than *me.* I know why, though. He tried to be a good police, give everyone a fair shot, but you see a lot of accidents - not much worse in the world than a really bad car crash. It *gets* to you. You get hard on people who don't respect the road, and there are plenty of them out there.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): It was raining that night, that heavy, thumping rain that means you can't hear a damn thing. It crashes onto the roof like someone's jumpin' on it. Me and Zack was sitting in a lay-by, watching traffic and trying to drink coffee. We'd picked it up from a service station a few miles back, but it was one of those open-topped styrofoam cups. By the time we'd got back to the car, the rain had got in and left us with two cups of cold sludge.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): So we were both in a pretty bad mood. It was maybe 1:00 in the afternoon, but you wouldn't have known it. The clouds weren't letting any sun through, and everything looked grey, wet and lifeless. Couldn't even talk over the sound of rain on the roof, so we just sat there in silence, drinking lukewarm sludge.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): The motorway was quieter than normal. A Wednesday afternoon doesn't see a lot of traffic, but the rain usually brings out more cars. That day it was pretty empty. Everyone seemed to be driving careful on account of the rain, which was also not normal, and I was torn. Part of me wanted to spot some idiot who I could take my bad mood out on, when the other part of me didn't want to get any wetter than I already was.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): It looked like I wasn't gonna get a choice, anyway - at least not until I saw the van. It was a beaten up old Citroën C15. There was some writing on the side, but I couldn't see it clearly through the rain. It was either very dirty, or painted a nasty shade of off-white.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): Most importantly, it was driving about 25 miles an hour. The limit is 70. There's technically no minimum speed on a motorway, but the van didn't show any signs of speeding up, and it was kind of strange. We had enough cause to stop it if we wanted. I wasn't sure whether to let it go or not, but Zack had clearly made his decision already. He was in the driving seat and fired up the lights as we drove up behind it.</span>

##### [FAINT STATIC/VIBRATION BEGINS TO RISE IN BACKGROUND, INITIALLY BARELY-PERCEPTIBLE]

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): The van glided to a stop on the hard shoulder at the side of the road and sat there. The headlights, which had been turned on for the rain, died. Then it just waited.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): Zack was out first. The rain was so thick that he had to take his torch to see properly. The light passed over the van, and I could see rust creeping around the edges of the paneling.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): We walked up to the driver's side. I could see dark shapes from inside, but they weren't moving. Up close, I could read the name on the side: "Breekon and Hope Deliveries." It was covered in a thick layer of dirt that the rain couldn't quite wash off.</span>

##### [OMINOUS MUSICAL TONE. STATIC/VIBRATIONS NOW VERY AUDIBLE.]

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): Zack knocked on the door and it opened. The man who got out looked normal - so normal that these days I can't really picture his face. Said his name was "Tom." I wasn't the one looking over his driving licence so I don't know about second names.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): From the other side two men climbed out. They were *huge.* Hard faces, like a pair of old stone statues, dressed in overalls and flat caps. They asked what was going on, speaking back and forth in Cockney accents so broad and fake-sounding that I thought they were putting them on for a laugh. I was about to lay into them for it when a sound cut me short.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): Zack had been talking to "Tom," who was making some bland explanation for his slow driving - caution, heavy rain, empty road, all that crap. They heard it, too, and he stopped mid-sentence to look at me.</span>

##### [DEEP, INTENSE BACKGROUND VIBRATIONS CONTINUE]

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): From the back of the van, there was a sound of moaning. It sounded kind of like a moan of pain, but long and drawn-out. It went on for almost a full minute, and was almost, I don't know, kind of musical. I looked at Tom and the fake Cockney passengers, but their faces were unreadable.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): Zack gripped Tom firmly by the arm and led him to the rear doors of the van, demanding that he open it. He didn't resist, just nodded, and got out a set of keys. He put one of them in the door, turned it, and the van opened.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): I saw that the two big guys had walked up next to us, so I was gettin' ready for trouble, but there's no way I would have guessed what was in there.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): It was a coffin. An old, wooden coffin. Rough, unvarnished. I could see splinters where the nails had been hammered in badly. Wrapped all around it was a thick metal chain ending in a heavy padlock. That weird moaning was coming from inside it. It was the only sound that cut through pounding rain.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): I tensed up, reaching for my baton - if these people were kidnappers or worse, we would be in *big* trouble. I was ready for a *fight,* but they just stood there, not moving, staring at us. *Everything* about the situation felt wrong. </span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): I looked over at Zack, and he seemed to be thinking the same thing.  He looked over at the two men in overalls and told them to take it out, then looked over to Tom asking if he had a key to the padlock. Reaching into his jacket, the man who called himself Tom pulled out a large iron key and handed it to my partner. Didn't look like the other keys.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): I wanted to head back to the car and call in some backup, but Zack was a senior officer, and if he thought we should open it first, _[inhale]_ I was gonna back his play.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): Zack took the key and walked towards the coffin, which now lay on the wet tarmac, lit only by the headlights of our car. The moaning was louder now, almost drowning out the sound of the hammering rain. Water had begun to flow off the wood, but everything else about it was still. </span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): As we got closer, I could see the words "Do Not Open" scratched into the surface of the wood. It didn't look like my partner was paying them any attention, though. He gently placed the key into the lock, wincing slightly as he touched the metal, and turned it.</span>

##### [BACKGROUND VIBRATIONS INTENSIFY FURTHER, WITH SOMEWHAT-CAVERNOUS WAVERING/SIGHING SOUNDS]

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): The chains snapped off like they were spring-loaded. They whipped around violently, and Zack jumped back, slipping and falling on his back. I brought my baton up, just in case the strangers made a move, but they were... motionless.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): The moaning had stopped. The only sound was the creaking of hinges as the lid of the coffin began to move. It was slow, the gap appearing first as just a crack, before finally opening completely. It was too dark to see what was inside at first, but when I shone my torch inside, I heard Zack gasp. I think I did as well. </span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): Inside of that wooden coffin, there was a staircase. It went down, apparently into the ground below, and seemed to go on as deep as I could see. They were steep, carved out of what looked like solid stone, and the rock that made up the walls didn't match the wet tarmac around us, all the earth that would have been underneath it. It was completely impossible.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): I tried to ask Tom or his companions about it, I *yelled* at them to explain what the hell was going on, but they just stood there, *staring* at it. So I *hit* one of them with my baton.</span>

##### [ADDITION OF WOBBLY, HIGHER-PITCHED VIBRATIONS]

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): It was one of the large men in overalls, though I'm not sure which one. It was like hitting solid wood, and the blow jarred my arm badly, making me drop the only weapon I had. Even then he just stood there, staring at the casket. There was a sound of movement from behind me. I turned to see Isaac walking into the coffin, his torch shining into the hollow below. He'd already disappeared up to his waist, and there was this look on his face that I have never seen before - relaxed, like he was asleep.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): I shouted for him, started to run but I felt a huge hand grip my shoulder. I grabbed it with my good arm, tried to escape it, but the grip was too strong. The texture of the flesh was like hard rubber. All I could do was watch as my partner kept walking into the earth, on stairs that couldn't be there. After a few seconds, he was completely out of sight.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): I expected to hear something - shouting, a, a scream, *something* - but it was still just the rain. The lid closed very slowly, and then he was gone. Just a coffin sitting on the hard shoulder of the M6.</span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): The hand released my shoulder as the two men in overalls began to walk over and calmly wrap the chains back around it. </span>

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): I felt a sudden burst of anger and picked up my baton. I lunged at them, but the one closest to me moved quicker than I would have thought possible. His fist slammed into my chest like a cannonball, and I felt a couple of ribs break. I collapsed to the floor, just lay there, as Tom and the two men locked the coffin back up, loaded it into the van, and drove off. I never saw Isaac Masters again.</span>

##### [STATIC/VIBRATIONS DIE DOWN]

<span class="statement daisy-statement">DAISY (STATEMENT): When I called it in, I was expecting a manhunt, an investigation, some kind of *justice.* It wasn't like we didn't have plenty of leads. Instead, I was handed a form I didn't recognize, told to sign it, and then reassigned to the Met. Since then, it's been one spook story after another.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. Thank you. Um... are you quite all right?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[angry]_ *No.* I never told that story to anyone except my old sergeant.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm... not sure, I, er, uh -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I should go.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes, of course, I'll see you out. Uh, there is *one* other thing - I've been meaning to ask Basira, but you might know better -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: *I'm done.*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh - yes, it's just, j - _[quickly]_ do you know anything about *vampires?*</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yeah.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh, it's just - that -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: A while back, there were some problems. Arrest irregularities around a few missing-person cases. Suspects being released without proper interrogation. Recordings of the interviews showed the subject wouldn't say a word, but the officers doing the interview would let them go anyway.</span>

##### [STATIC/VIBRATIONS BEGIN]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I don't know the details of the investigation, but there's a new operating procedure now.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Which would be...?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Cases matching certain parameters have to be monitored by another officer outside the room by video. In the very specific circumstance where the suspect says nothing, but the interrogating officer acts as though they have, they're immediately removed from the room. Then, they call me.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Just you...?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: There are a few others around who do it, but I take care of a dozen or so precincts. I cuff the suspect's hands and legs, drive them out into the middle of Epping Forest, and burn them to ashes. There's never enough left to be a problem.</span>

##### [ARCHIVIST CAN BE HEARD EXHALING IN HORROR]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I don't know if they're vampires, exactly, but that's what we call them.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Good lord... H-how many have you... taken care of?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Mm... five in the last nine years.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I see...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[anxious, drawn]_ *Don't* tell Basira. She doesn't know about that procedure. I, I'm not sure how much she'd understand, she - she's not - cut out for that kind of work.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Of, of course I won't -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Don't tell her any of this, okay? *I* was never here. If she wants to get you more tapes, that's *her* business, but you keep this visit to yourself! Got that?!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST : Uh, uh, uh, of course!</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: *Good.*</span>

##### [HARD, ABRUPT CLICK; DAISY TURNED IT OFF HERSELF]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Supplemental.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: That was... an interesting interview. It seems we're not done with sinister coffins just yet. The contents were surprising, to say the least, but don't give any real clues as to its origin, purpose, or even its relationship with Breekon and Hope. Are they simply... couriers? Guardians? Hostages?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: At least I also have confirmation that the vampires Trevor Herbert described are not purely figments of a drug-addled mind. I probably shouldn't be too pleased to discover that there are even more violent hunters stalking us through the night, but there it is.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I'll... admit to feeling a bit hurt by Basira's true motivations. I suppose it's hardly surprising, I have not been the most... stable over these last few months. Either way, I'll not be bringing it up.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Even if I wasn't genuinely somewhat afraid of Detective Tonner _[nervous laugh]_ such a revelation would only harm our relationship, and I *need* those tapes. I can't afford to have Gertrude's time at the Institute disappear back into obscurity.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I'll check the one I have, and then wait to hear from Basira. Or perhaps I should try to make contact...? I should really have got a, number or something. Well, *that's* a matter for later. I need to go home. Try to get some sleep.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I just wish it wasn't raining.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: End supplemental.</span>

##### [CLICK]