---
layout:          post
title:           "MAGQA2 - #0170928 - Season 2 Q&A Part 2"
date:            2017-10-04 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      special
tags:            [Q&A]
statement_of:    []
recorder:        []
voiced:          []
episode_title:   'Season 2 Q&A Part 2'
episode_number:  'QA2'
case_number:     '0170928'
statement_date:  2017-09-28
recording_date:  
event_date:      
summary:         "Jonny and Alex continue to answer your questions about Season 2!"
content_flags:   []
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag80.2-season2q-apart2
pdf:             https://drive.google.com/open?id=0BwU6M4sYgbYddXhPSmdxR2pnUFE
accessible_pdf:  https://drive.google.com/open?id=0BwU6M4sYgbYdV2Nsa3p2TVVTUXM
google_doc:      
official:        true
wiki_url:        
---


<span class="alex">ALEX: Hi everyone, Alex here. Just a reminder that this is Part Two of our Season 2 Q&A episode. So, if you haven't listened to Part One you should probably go back and listen to that first. Assuming you have, we'll be picking up exactly where we left off. Thanks again for your patience.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Now another question, final one from __Steve Bread__. "The series does really well to avoid a lot of the worst horror clichés with smart, if a little overly curious, protagonists. What are our most hated horror tropes and do we find it hard to avoid them?"</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: I'll dive in straight off the bat. I **hate** stupid protagonists. I don't mean like a misunderstanding here...</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I mean, you say that but John's made some very poor choices.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Ah, but a bad choice isn't stupid.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yeah, fair.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: I mean, I mean genuinely, like, there is a roar, and there is a scratching behind the door, and blood is seeping out... So what do you do? You open the door. Don't open the door! No-one would op-- Don't open the door. That's stupid; that's a stupid protagonist.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Mine is using sexual violence as a source of horror. Certain stories I, I have heard generally, generally by survivors do actually use horror very effectively as a means of exploring and coming to terms with that sort of thing but, crucially, they never, it's never **the** horror. Like, it really leaves us horrid... like, a really nasty taste in my mouth when that sort of thing is equated to ghosts and, you know, ghosts and mummies and all this sort of stuff and--</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Well, it's the difference between trauma and horror.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yeah, absolutely. And... I, I just really hate it. It just, it really bothers me.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: So, this next one is from __Operaghost21__.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Ooh, opera ghost!</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Although, I do wonder what happened to opera ghosts 1 through 20.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I mean, there's more than twenty operas.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: No, fair, fair. "Word is Gertrude and Jurgen were played by Johnny's parents." Fun fact.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: That is correct.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Yes. So the question for Johnny is: "How much of the characters and dialogue were initially written with them in mind and what was it like working with your parents."</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Initially, none of it, because it was never planned in that sort of sense.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Like, we, we never had a sit-down meeting, episode one, going, "Jonny, I need a vehicle for the entire Sims family. How do we make this happen?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yeah. No, it was very much we were looking for an actress to play Gertrude, and at some point I realized that a lot of the lines I've been writing, I'd kind of been reading in my mother's voice in my head. And so, I suggested it to Alex and he said, "Don't be stupid."</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: In, in fairness, I said, "Alright, fine, we'll give it a go. Sure." And then I listened to it, and it was amazing!</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: From a meta-narrative sense, it's quite pleasing that, y'know, because of the role Gertrude plays in the story and so that was how Mother got involved. And Jurgen, I mean, to be honest, we... we just really struggled casting Jurgen.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: And then I found out that your dad had a voice that, like, matches Christopher Lee and you kept that under your hat!</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I'd forgotten because my mother does, does do some sort of reading stuff, here and there. And my dad used to do some theatre stuff but it just wasn't in my mind as much. And when we were casting around for someone to, to play Jurgen, I sent him a couple of lines and, er, Alex was like, "Oh yeah, no, bring him in too."</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: And the second part of this, which was, "And what was it like working with your parents?" I'm going to answer for you. They're lovely!</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: JONNY [BACKGROUND]: They're fine. They're alright. They're okay.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: They are the loveliest people to work with. It was brilliant. Also, in real time, I got to listen to Gertrude telling the Archivist, "You misspelled that. Correct your grammar." _[DIRTY LAUGH]_</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: She's an English teacher. She has exacting standards.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: So, this next question--</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: It's fine. Working with your parents. It's fine.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: I loved it.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: So, next one's from __Ethereal87__. "While reading a script or writing an episode, what were some of the episodes that creeped **you** out while reading them? And would you say you have a different answer after listening to a finished episode?" So, was something upsetting when writing, and not when listening, or vice versa?</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Absolutely it's different after listening, because after listening, er, they're not scary to me at all because... I don't particularly enjoy the sound of my own voice recorded, because, I mean, no-one does. So, I find listening back, er, I can't really get into it the same way I can when writing it, because my own voice is a bit distracting to me.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: So strap in for this one, serious question, right. __Rohirim36__.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Right.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: "If all of the employees of *The Magnus Archives* -- Jon, Tim, Martin, Elias, Sasha, and let's say Not!Sasha for good measure..."</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: JONNY [BACKGROUND]: Okay, cool, cool, cool.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: "...were tossed into a Friday the 13th movie..."</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Oh right, oh right.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: "...Which one is the last one alive?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Oh, the **last** one?</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: I, I have a strong opinion on this one.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Do you?</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: I think Not!Sasha because that's the interesting story.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I mean, yeah, but... Friday the, a Friday the 13th movie is not an interesting story.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Oh, I may have missed the point there.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: It's a formulaic slasher. Yeah, I think, I think you have. I mean, I think either Sasha or Martin.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Next one's from __Prid__ via Reddit.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Sure sure.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: "Do we record on a weekly basis or a block at a time?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Fortnightly, chunk of episodes. A lot of it depends on how guest actors' schedules line up.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: And previously whenever we had a multi-cast recording it was a logistical nightmare, we had to do binge recordings. But now!</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: What's happened, Alex?</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: We're in our big, shiny, new, Patreon-funded studio, which allows us to do multi-cast recordings whenever we want.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Ah, it's wonderful. I'm stroking, I'm stroking the soundproof walls at the moment but you can't hear because they're soundproof!</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: We're not under a duvet. It's brilliant, I love it.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: _[softly]_ I miss the duvet.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: "When the Archivist isn't battling the forces of evil, what does he do for fun?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I think he reads a lot of non-fiction, watches documentaries...</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: The idea that John has any fun whatsoever astonishes me.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I mean, this is, this is probably before all this started. He's, he's something of a workaholic. I think he probably collects something. I'm not sure. Like, I don't think it will be stamps or coins or anything quite that cliché, but I think he probably collects something just a little bit weird.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: _[chuckles]_ And the final one from __Prid__, I'm going to answer this one for you. "Is there any chance of a two-hour-long Christmas special?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yes, definitely, we're writing--</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: NO!</span>

##### [CARRIES ON SPLUTTERING OVER JONNY'S ANSWER]

<span class="jonny">JONNY: ...one right now, I've got... it's, I mean. What?</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: So, the answer is, the answer is, No.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Alex is saying no, this is the first I'm hearing of it.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Yes, of course we'd love to; no, a two-hour Christmas special might actually kill our editors.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Pretty sure it's in my contract that I'm definitely, definitely... a two-hour special. Don't listen to Alex. It's definitely going to happen.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Next question is from __mGlottalstop__. Ooh, it's for me. "How much input do I have in performing characters compared to Jonny's text?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Not as much input as you have in whether or not we get a two-hour Christmas special.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: So, in, in general, when you're getting down to, like, the individual episode level so my, my role when it comes to the scripts is -- I help on the really, really big picture 'cause I'm like I'm a story editor and part of that is, like, "move this protagonist here," "this, this thing isn't going to work, necessarily," so I help in a, sort of, really big, broad strokes, and then right down into the dialogue.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: So... I don't really touch Jonny's statements, any of the, like, big processes, it's not my bag. When it comes to the dialogue, I think I have a lot more input, and... certainly I'd say with Martin, there's been a few times where I've probably suggested a more Martin way of dealing with a problem.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Oh, yeah, like I think you get input on a lot of the characters when it comes to the dialogue.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: This next one, again from __mGlottalstop__, and it's for you specifically.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Cool, cool, cool.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: "In writing and steering *The Magnus Archives* have you ever been inspired by performance of the cast to try and push their boundaries further? Can we give an example of a time when a voice actor's performance has impacted the writing, specifically?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Um, it's less that it will impact the writing and more that often I'll have, er, we'll have a character who's intended as a one shot and then they'll come in, they'll give their performance and they'll leave, and me an Alex will look at each other and be like, "That character's coming back."</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: You can just tell.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: So, it tends to be that rather than changing how a character is, it'll make us make the character more important if we really like how they're voice acted.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Okay, this next one is from __Undeclaredmilk__, excellent name, via Reddit. "Is there any chance we'll ever get to hear Johnny sing?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I mean there's a chance. We're not going to do a, like, a musical episode. But I mean, who knows what might happen.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: This next one is from __Crysiana__, Reddit. *"The Magnus Archives* doesn't pretend to be real like other shows like *The Black Tapes* do. But have we ever considered any sort of ARG _[Alternate Reality Game]_ element to the series?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Considered? Yes. ARGs, that's a thing, very resource intensive.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Yeah.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: And the sort of resources that, to be honest, I'm much more inclined to put our time towards making the show as good as it can be.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Yeah, again it's a, it's a thing, it's exactly the kind of thing that I would normally be all over...</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I'd love it if we had the time</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: But we can... Yeah, I'd rather put the energy, like you say, into, into the show itself.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Yeah.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Next one's from __Gulbasaur__, via Reddit. "Do we have a planning process for pacing the episodes? Is there a big spreadsheet somewhere with 'Jane Prentiss, Spiders, One-shot' table written down the side for tracking and things like that?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yes there is. There is exactly that table. And it is currently being filled out for Season 3.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: And hidden. Don't go looking for it.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Obviously it--</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: You won't find it.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I mean, it's mine.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: _[Laughs]_ This next one is from __Crystal Requiem__, via Reddit. "As someone who dabbles in writing, I find I have trouble creating a wide array of distinct characters and personalities. But you seem to develop a new one every episode. How do you develop so many distinct personalities?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Generally I will take a single aspect that really interests me, either from somebody I know or often just from me -- a particular aspect of my own personality -- and then I will extrapolate it and I find, like, coming up with the voice is the... the key. And once I've got the first few lines, if I've got the first few lines right, I find the rest of the character flows quite naturally.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Sure. "Have we ever had to change a statement because it was too similar to something that's come out previously?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: We've had to change what we were **going** to do. Like, it's the sort of thing where, when we're planning it, I might throw out an idea and Alex will say, "oh actually, we've done quite a lot of that sort of story. Maybe try it in from a different angle."</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: We've never reached the point where we had to change it. But then again, I think it's both a thing that we're really quite careful of, so it's not really come up like that.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yeah, I've certainly never turned up to a recording with a script I need to have Alex say, "this is too similar, let's change it."</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: And finally from __Crystal Requiem__: "As opposed to the statements, everything caught on tape at the Archives is acted rather than narrated..."</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Sure.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: "What sort of strategies do we use to help the audience understand what they're hearing?" That's a really, really good question and it's really... difficult to answer because we had a lot of talks about it at the start of this series about how we were gonna make it work.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yeah, it's, it's something that, er, the short answer is: think about it a lot beforehand and discuss it at length. There are all sorts of dodges and kinda cheats that, radio especially, has historically used for this. I find that there are some great books on radio writing and writing for audio that address this.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: I strongly advise everyone who listens to this to go out and listen -- it's in the public domain -- and it's called *This Gun in My Right Hand is Loaded.*</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yeah.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: It is a, it's a comedy radio piece where they do everything that you should not do, in order to help teach people you know how to not do it, basically. Listen to that. What we do is the exact opposite of that. But it's, it's a great laugh to listen to, but yeah, a lot of it is... finding ways to really signpost and telegraph to an audience what's going on and to contextualize things in such a way that not even that it's--</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: It feels natural.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Not even in a way that it's invisible, just that people will accept, y'know? So it'll be little things like, er, John mentioning that he was carrying a pipe.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Everyone's aware--</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Oh, god, the, the, the number of iterations we had to go through to get that one sounding even remotely natural.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Well, again, otherwise you end up with, "I am carrying a pipe in my hand", like yeah, yeah. But again, audiences realize sometimes when you trying to do it, and they play the game with you.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yeah. Audiences are very forgiving for that sort of thing.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Next one is from __HybridTheorist12__, Reddit. "Is the entity calling itself Michael inspired by the manga *Uzumaki?"*</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Ooh, um, that's a very good question. The answer is, not directly. I'm a big fan of Junji Ito's works, especially, er, *Uzumaki's* one that I really like because the idea of malicious concepts really appeals to me, something about the...</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: I'd never have guessed.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: The idea of a spiral deciding to hate you and mess with your life? That, that tickles me. So, while Michael is not directly inspired by *Uzumaki,* I would definitely cite it as an influence.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Next question is from __Fxktn__ on Reddit. "Who is Martin's favourite poet?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Ooh, that's a very good question. I think he's probably, er, I mean Wordsworth. I think he probably less has a favourite poet and more really has favourite poetry collections. He strikes me as someone whose poetry's much more based on the anthologies he's read than, er, diving deep into the work of any specific poet. That said--</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: *Poetry for Beginners,* that kind of thing. _[Chuckles]_</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: *The Dragon Book of Poetry,* that sort of thing. That said, I think he probably has a soft spot for Wordsworth and Keats and that lot.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Okay, another one from __Fxktn__. "What happens if you ask Michael 'when is a door not a door'?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: He... undoes you.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: "How much of what's been revealed in Season 2 was planned from the beginning? Obviously, grbookworm1818 must have been. But how about characters like Leitner?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I mean, Leitner, specifically, was absolutely planned from the beginning.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: What, we were talking about Leitner from day one?</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Oh, absolutely. But things like the exact manner of his reveal, that has changed slightly from what was originally planned. The superstructure of the plot has been a hundred percent set from day one. But a lot of the individual stuff, while they are planned in advance, what they end up becoming and where they end up connecting often changes in the writing and how the story naturally develops.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: The way I always think of it is, the bigger the detail the more likely it is to have been thought of at the start and then, the more fine, the more nuanced it gets, more likely it's probably had a bit of a more winding path to get to where it is.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: And we have a lot of very important... floating story elements...</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Yeah.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: ...that will definitely come to fruition. But the exact details of when and where they're going to land are going to depend on a lot of other factors.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: "How come Jurgen Leitner is said to be Norwegian? His name seems to be German."</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Because of, er, multiple, apparently inaccurate, lists of Norwegian baby names.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: _[Laughs]_ Pears or apples?</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Personally, I prefer an apple.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: That's because you're correct. That's, that's the objective--</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Although, although, I will say I prefer apple juice to an apple...</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: You're mad.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: ...because, I mean, it's just a lot of chewing, it's a lot of work eating an apple.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: That's why it's so rewarding!</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Okay, yeah, but no, just eating... a drink lot of apple juice you get the same vitamins, you don't need to be chewing like a goat all the time.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: ALEX [BACKGROUND]: Moving on. We're moving on. We're moving on...</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: It's good for you! Right. Next one's from __Caardvark__ on Reddit. "Are certain episodes of *The Magnus Archives* inspired by your own deep-set fears and phobias and, if so, what are they?" I know we've answered this one before.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yes, most of them. I'm scared all the time.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: I keep discovering new ones thanks to the show. Specifically trypophobia, and I, er, forget what it's called, fear of abysses.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Oh, oh, I mean, you're welcome in both cases.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Thanks. Next one. __pyongYEAH__, I like that name, on Reddit. "Do any of the statements that we feature have a perfectly reasonable explanation behind them?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: No. There are plenty of statements in the Magnus Institute that do, but they are not the ones you are hearing.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Next one is from __Blooblewoo__, via Reddit again. "All the statements that involve people with jobs like sailor or antiquities dealer seem really well-detailed. Have you worked a lot of jobs, do a lot of research, or do you just make stuff up good?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Oh, while I would love to have had a life of a diver, an antiquities dealer and a garbage man, and an abattoir worker... well, maybe not, er, governor, but a lot of research, a lot of research...</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: A lot of obscure forums.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: And I guess a certain degree of making stuff up good.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: If you couldn't make stuff up good, we wouldn't be here.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yeah sure enough.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: This next one's from __purpletopo__, via Reddit. "Do Tim, Martin and John ever hang out or interact outside of work hours?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: They used to. _[Alex/Martin sighs]_ Not so much since Series 2 started. Not, not a lot beforehand but I mean they would occasionally have had, like, a work function, I think. Possibly a Curry Night around Christmas, that sort of thing.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: It wasn't fun for John, I suspect.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Oh no, John, yeah, John went.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Martin had a great time.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: "If Leitner didn't make the books, will you ever reveal who did? Or is every book unique in how it was created and there are multiple authors?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: You are assuming that a book needs to be written.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: "Who does the Archivist consider his best friend? Does he think of any of the people he knows as friends?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: At this stage, I'm not sure that the Archivist has many friends. But... I guess we'll see, won't we?</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: _[Chuckles]_ "If all of the eldritch forces have different origins and different allegiances, does that mean there are some who might have a reason to actually **help** John as opposed to going after him?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Oh, I mean, I suppose **theoretically**, y'know. That'd be, that'd be quite a narratively rich vein to explore, don't you think Alex?</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: What would I know? What would I know? I just ask the questions.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: But it's all very unlikely.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: "Are the writer and actor Jonathan Sims, and the Archivist Jonathan Sims, at all alike or do the similarities end in the shared name or voice?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I mean, I don't think they're super alike. Like, a lot of his, a lot of his aspects are small aspects of my own personality turned up to 11.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: I just think you mined the bits of yourself that you don't particularly like.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I mean, yeah.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: And then, and then just built a personality around them.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: No, I mined the bits of myself that are useful in a horror protagonist.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Now, the last one, last question we've got. "Do we have favourite episodes and/or moments from Season 2?"</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yes.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: ...</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Cool, so thanks for listening... _[laughs]_</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yes. No, I'm just thinking through Season 2.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: I really liked how the Michael stuff came out.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yeah, like, the Michael stuff's has come out really nicely.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: I... When we originally were doing Michael, I had an instinct that it might really grab people if we handled it right and spent a long, long time trying to get Michael right. Y'know, with the laugh and with the way he is with the doors, and yet again with all of the, sort of, direction side, never mind the writing side, which obviously was in your hands, so I'd probably say... the Michael bits have been my favourite just because I said that sometimes writing these big sprawling things and working on them is like playing a game. I feel like that was a, that was a really nice trick shot where I hoped it would come together, and it did, and people engaged with it, and it came out as so much more than it could have been.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: For me, a lot of it comes down to when a voice actor really nails what I felt the character was about. So, Imogen who played Helen Richardson in the Michael episode...</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: She did great job, really good.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: ...Carrie who played Mary Kaey...</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Carrie's terrifying!</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Oh yeah, she's so scary.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: She's the scariest person I've ever met in the best way possible.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I also really enjoyed, actually, *The Tale of a Field Hospital* _[MAG068]_ was quite fun, because I genuinely really enjoy going through old, weird, obscure books, especially if they're not overtly creepy, and just seeing which bits can be reinterpreted as sinister, because the majority of the stuff in that episode was taken directly from that book. And also *Fatigue,* because I just, I stayed up really, really late, didn't sleep for a long time, and then I wrote it.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: With a deadline.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Why, why would it need editing? I wrote it on zero sleep. And it's, it's about not having any sleep.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: So, I think that's everything. I think that's all of the questions. Wow.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: So, as always, thank you so much to everyone who has been engaging on the forums, engaging by Reddit, everyone who's been, basically, throwing us money via Patreon. You are literally facilitating this moving forward. I'm sat in a studio with Jonny that never would have happened. It's thanks to you guys. We are generating extra content. We are looking at expanding and it's all very much thanks to that support. Thanks everyone who's been sharing it via social media, Twitter, Facebook, obviously, getting involved but mostly just thanks for spreading the word, like...</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I mean keep doing it.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Yeah. No, don't stop. Please don't stop.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: But thank you for doing what you've done so far.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: ...because, it genuinely... the scale of this, is directly determined by...</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: I'm so blown away.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: ...what support people have been giving. The more support we get, the more we just increase the scale of what we get to do. And I like that.</span>

##### [INFO ABOUT CLOSED SURVEY REMOVED]

<span class="alex">ALEX: But I think that's us done. Thank you again, as always, for coming along Jonny. Go have a rest.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: No problem.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Have a sleep. I mean, go get married, maybe.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Do you mean, do you mean: Go obsessively write content for Season 3?</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: That's what I said.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Yeah.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Cool. So until then, I guess we'll, we'll see you all later.</span>

<span class="jonny">JONNY: Okay, see you in Season 3.</span>

<span class="alex">ALEX: Bye, then.</span>