---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG047 - #0161002 - The New Door"
date:            2017-01-11 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Helen Richardson, Michael, NotSasha, The Archivist, Direct Statements, Mazes, Prisons, Traps, Doors, Mirrors, Corridors, Heat, Dehydration, Getting Lost, Pursuit, Being Followed, Being Chased, Being Hunted, Maniaphobia, Xenophobia, The Spiral, The Stranger]
statement_of:    [Helen Richardson]
recorder:        [Direct]
voiced:          [The Archivist, Helen Richardson, NotSasha, Michael]
episode_title:   The New Door
episode_number:  '047'
case_number:     '0161002'
statement_date:  2016-10-02
recording_date:  2016-10-02
event_date:      2016
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag-47-the-new-door
pdf:            
accessible_pdf: 
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/199LBo5ALJ-jt73KB9sZPHGmGNckMgy88LZ-r2Oya52Y/edit?usp=sharing
official:        false
unofficial:      'https://snarp.tumblr.com/'
unofficial_name: snarp
wiki_url:        https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_47:_The_New_Door
---

##### [CLICK]

##### [SOUND OF PEN SCRATCHING AGAINST PAPER IN SHARP, FRUSTRATED MOVEMENTS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement of Helen Richardson, regarding, uh... how would you describe it?</span>

##### [PEN SCRATCHING CONTINUES]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...Miss Richardson?</span>

##### [PEN SCRATCHING CONTINUES]

<span class="helen">HELEN: \- uh, what? </span>

##### [PEN SCRATCHING CONTINUES]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Your experience, how would you summarize it?</span>

##### [PEN SCRATCHING CONTINUES]

<span class="helen">HELEN: Um, well, I've been, I've been trying to draw you a map, but, it doesn't, it doesn't *work.*</span>

##### [PEN SCRATCHING CONTINUES; HELEN CAN NOW BE HEARD BREATHING HARD AS THE ARCHIVIST SPEAKS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: \- Right. Statement of Helen Richardson, regarding a new door in the house she was selling. Statement recorded direct from subject, 2nd October, 2016. Statement begins.</span>

##### [PEN SCRATCHING CONTINUES]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Miss Richardson?</span>

##### [PEN SCRATCHING STOPS]

<span class="helen">HELEN: There's no left turns. Look, _[paper rustles]_ look, *none,* it just, it just turns right, it doesn't make any sense _[paper rustles]_ no, it wasn't a spiral because you could, you could always go forward, I mean, I -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[overlapping]_ _[sigh]_</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: \- I, I did *mostly,* just forward, and the paths never got *shorter,* like you were coming to a center, they just - kept going - it doesn't, doesn't make any sense! _[paper rustles]_ Look at it -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Ah, Miss Richardson -</span>

##### [PAPER RUSTLES]

<span class="helen">HELEN: *Look at it!*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...You're right. This map doesn't make any sense -</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: _[overlapping]_ After a few turns -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[overlapping]_ - it becomes a mess of impossible lines, yes. But it will be very useful for our investigation if you could start at the beginning, give us some context.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Tell me how it got started.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: What do you want to know? There wasn't a door. And then there was.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): I worked for Wolverton Kendrick. I still do, I suppose, I haven't officially quit, but I haven't been back there since this happened. We mostly sell properties around the Wimbledon area, sometimes as far as Collier's Wood. We specialize in well-appointed family homes for successful professionals looking to move further out of London. We've had a lot of success, and these days usually have anything up to two hundred properties on the market, most of them detached family homes or big well-appointed flats.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): I've been with the agency for about eight years now, and I've done thousands of viewings for them, so believe me when I say there was nothing unusual about that house on Saint Albans Avenue. I mean - maybe the fact the owner was selling it for less than two million? Even then, it still wasn't *suspiciously* cheap, it was just a lovely house in a good area, like every other house I sell.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): But I think back to driving there, the trees seem darker than they should have been. The other houses sit there, sinister, behind their tall gates and empty driveways. But I think, oh, that's just my memory changing to fit what I know now. At the time, I don't think I felt anything except annoyance that I was going to be two minutes late to the viewing.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): You know, what's funny, even after everything that happened, I actually have trouble picturing the house in my mind. It was so much like all the others. So... unremarkable.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): And it's not like I've been *back.*</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): For most of the morning viewings, it was business as usual. I had the usual stream of bankers and executives asking the standard questions, occasionally livened up by a private dentist or a barrister. I walked around that house for the better part of five hours, and by the end I'd been in every room, and opened every cupboard, dozens of times. And I promise you, I *swear* to you: that door was not there.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): *He*... came... at the end of the viewings. It was the last appointment, and although he didn't give his name, I am *absolutely* sure he was not Mr. and Mrs. Adrian Lombardi.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): He was tall, maybe six and a half feet? And he had long, straw-coloured hair that fell onto his shoulders in loose ringlets. His face was round and unthreatening, although he stood so still when I answered the door that it did rather unnerve me.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): I asked him if he was Mr. Lombardi, and he said no, but that Mr. Lombardi wouldn't be coming, so he was here instead. It's not unheard of for some of our clients to send their people to viewings in their, place so it didn't seem like an unreasonable statement, even if it would normally, you know, be arranged ahead of time. I just, I just thought I'd missed an email.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): I held up my arm for a handshake, but he just looked at it, and laughed, keeping his hands firmly by his side. That was when I first started to think that something might be wrong, because his laugh didn't... sound right? I, I don't know how to describe it, but it wasn't, it wasn't a *human* laugh.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): I should have stopped there, and left, or called the police, but he'd already walked past me and into the house, and I started to give him the sales pitch, almost as a reflex. I decided that, since he didn't seem to be actively threatening, I'd just give him a quick rundown of the house and get out of there as soon as possible. He was strange, but I felt that if he did work for the Lombardis, then I didn't want to be rude, and have to deal with a complaint later? So I took him 'round the place.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): He followed me. His, his eyes were always looking where I pointed, but he never seemed to take anything in, and he didn't ask any questions at all. At least, not 'till we reached the second floor.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): We'd just climbed up the stairs to the top of the house. I went into the first bedroom, and I started talking about its potential as a child's room or a study. The ceiling was quite low, and I thought I'd better warn him to be careful - but when I looked back, he wasn't there. I stepped back out onto the landing to find him looking at a new door. He asked me what was behind it, and I just stood there, staring.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): It was a small, unremarkable door, painted dark yellow, with a matte-black handle. And it wasn't there before.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): I had been up on that landing *dozens* of times already, and I *definitely* did not remember it being there. It wasn't, wasn't just that I hadn't *noticed* it, you have to understand that, it *wasn't there.* It *couldn't* have *been* there, I checked the floor plan I had with me, and obviously _[anxious laugh]_ there was *no door* shown on it, it was an *exterior wall* on the *second floor,* there *can't* have been anything beyond it but *empty* air _[anxious laugh]_ and a *significant* drop, except that I had made *several* circuits of the outside while showing off the garden, _[tearful]_ and there was *absolutely no door* visible there, it was just a dark yellow door that couldn't *be* there.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): The man asked me again what was inside, and I just stood there, staring at it with my mouth hanging open in shock. I honestly don't know how long I stood there looking at it. My strange client said nothing, and I'd almost forgotten he was there by the time I finally made up my mind.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): I reached out and gripped the handle. It was warm. I turned it, and as soon as I did so the door swung open. I didn't need to pull it at all. It opened slowly, but deliberately, like... it was keen for me to go inside. And beyond that threshold, where there should have been empty air over the garden, there was a long, windowless corridor.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): It was lit by electric lamps attached to the walls every ten feet or so, and the walls were papered over in a swirling green pattern. Running down the middle of the faded yellow carpet was a rug, black and thick, that disappeared off as the path very gradually curved to the left.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): On the walls were what at first looked like mirrors, but I, I soon realized that, while a few of them *were* mirrors, most of them were paintings or photographs of that same corridor from various odd angles.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): Here's the thing: I don't remember going through that door. I remember standing there, looking down it with this... feeling of dread. And then I remember feeling a surge of terror as I heard the door close behind me with a click. I spun 'round, but there was no handle on this side, just a huge, smooth mirror. I saw myself stood in that strange corridor, and it looked like I'd been crying for hours. I hammered, shouted, I *threw* myself against the uncaring face of that mirror, and nothing happened. It didn't even crack.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): I took out my phone. My mind was muddy, but... I don't know exactly what I was hoping to do, call the police, maybe? My colleagues? I, I think I might have wanted just to check the time. I had no idea how long I'd been in there.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): When I opened the phone, all that was on the screen was another picture of the corridor, just like the paintings on the walls.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): So I started walking down the corridor. Like... I mean, there was there was, there was nothing else I could do. It dragged on and on, bending almost imperceptibly to the left. Well, every once in a while there would be another corridor turning off to the right at a sharp angle. At first, I, I avoided these branching paths, thinking if I walked along the corridor far enough, it would *have* to lead somewhere. But after what felt like miles, I finally decided that taking one of the turns... it, it couldn't make things worse.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): The branching corridors were identical. Mirrors, and paintings that mirrored them, were everywhere, and when I turned back, I think I must have gotten turned around? Because the left turn, that would have led back towards the door, wasn't, it wasn't there anymore. It was another long corridor, with paths off to the right.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): The wallpaper was a different colour, though, I think. It definitely changed, but I never noticed it switching, I'd simply realize that it hadn't been red when I'd been walking - or, blue, or purple, whatever colour it was at the time. All the colours seemed to shift in that place. Even the yellow of the carpet, the black of the rug, it... felt like I couldn't trust my eyes.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): Based... on the date of my appointment, and the newspaper I found later, I think I was in there for three days. It was, it was impossible to tell from inside, though I don't remember sleeping, or even feeling tired? I did spend a lot of time just... slumped in despair, though, so maybe I slept then. I had no food or water, I got very delirious by the end. It didn't help it was so warm in there, although it often seemed like I couldn't stop shivering, like I was cold.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): I was almost passed out from misery when I saw it. It was stood way off in the distance, a long way down the corridor. It seemed almost human, from a distance, but as it got closer, I saw that it was anything but.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): Its body was thin and limp, and when it moved, it *shifted,* like I was watching it through rippling water. Its hands were swollen, and bits of them jutted out at annoying angles. It was, it was moving towards me fast, and as I looked I saw that all the pictures on the wall now showed this thing - although each distorted it differently, like a selection of funhouse mirrors - but all of them, *all* of them showed the hands as bulbous and sharp.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): I looked around in desperation, trying to find any hope of escape. The thing was getting closer and closer, and I could hear that weird laugh again. And then I saw it. A mirrored frame that did not contain the creature.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): I had no reason to think it would help, but I could see no other choice but waiting for death. So I *threw* myself at this empty mirror.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): And just like that, I was out. I felt the cold night air on my face and, and wet tarmac under my hands and knees. It was raining. I turned up in Dulwich, of all places. I screamed for about five minutes before someone came to help me.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): I don't really know what else to tell you. I was hospitalized for a short while, until they were satisfied my dehydration wasn't going to cause any complications. And I spent a long time at home. Not opening any doors.</span>

<span class="statement helen-statement">HELEN (STATEMENT): Finally, _[suppressing tears]_ after the latest bout of nightmares, I decided to come to you and tell you my story. Maybe you can make some sense of this.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...Perhaps. Leave it with us. We'll... do some digging and see what we can find.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: _[tearful]_ You *believe* me, then?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... yes. Yes, I think I do.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: One thing, though. You say you don't remember the man's name...</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: I... I think he told me, but I just, I...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: \- it wasn't "Michael," was it?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: ...Yes! *Michael!* That was it...! _[vengeful]_ Do you *know* him?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Maybe...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: We'll make some enquiries and get back to you, Miss Richardson. Thank you for your time.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Right, well... I'll just leave you to it, then.</span>

##### [SOUND OF DOOR OPENING SLOWLY AND SQUEAKILY, THEN CLOSING MORE-SLOWLY AND MORE-SQUEAKILY]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sasha!</span>

##### [SOUND OF DOOR OPENING NOTICEABLY FASTER AND LESS-SQUEAKILY]

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Sorry, did you call?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, I've just had a statement from someone claims they met your Michael.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Michael? The distorted Michael?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The very same. I don't think we re-recorded your statement on him, did we?</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Did we need to?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It was one of the tapes that vanished during the attack.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Oh. Well, I can give it again, if you'd like, but I haven't seen him since.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And you can't think of any further insights? Nothing you forgot to mention last time?</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: I don't think so, no.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Hmm. What are you doing at the moment?</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Reorganizing your "discredited" section. It's a bit of a mess. If I may say so, John, I feel you've been a bit less conscientious about it, since you got back.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, that's fair. Sorry, I... let me know once you're finished, I'd very much like you on this case.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT!SASHA: Yes, will do.</span>

##### [MICHAEL SPEAKS OVER DOOR CLOSING SQUEAKLESSLY AND RISING SQUEALING STATIC]

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Do you even know they're lying to you?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[overlapping]_ I, I, I'm sorry, I didn't - can I *help* you? This place is off-limits.</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I disagree.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Who let you in here?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: "Let?"</span>

##### [Michael laughs. The sound is nearly-imperceptibly doubled, as if he is laughing from more than one throat, a fraction of a second out-of-sync with himself.]

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I'm afraid that isn't how this works.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You're him.</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Yes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Michael.</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: ...</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: That *is* a real name.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Are you here to kill me?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: No.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Why are, why are you here? Wh -</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I am simply collecting what is mine, Archivist. The one who entered my domain.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...Miss Rich-ard-son? You own those hallways?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: What a *fffascinating* question. Does your *hand* in any way own your stomach?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[overlapping]_ _[muted]_ Ah -</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: In any case, it doesn't matter: the Wanderer had a brief respite, but it's over now.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well, you're too *late,* sh-she's gone!</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: _[laugh]_ ...yes... ah... did you notice *which* door she left through? _[continues laughing quietly]_</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[overlapping]_ Yes... wait... no, there was, there -</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: _[overlapping]_ There has *never* been a door there, Archivist, your mind plays *tricks* on you...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Let her go!</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: _[laugh]_ No?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Get her back here! </span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: _[laugh]_ Are you going to attack me?</span>

##### [ARCHIVIST YELLS IN PAIN AS MICHAEL CONTINUES LAUGHING QUIETLY]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: \- who the hell are you!?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I am not a "who," Archivist, I am a "what." A "who" requires a degree of identity I can't ever retain.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So... Michael isn't your real name, what?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: There is no such thing as a real name.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What are you talking about?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I am talking about myself. It's not something I'm used to doing, so I'm sorry if I'm not very good at it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You decided to appear down here and... stab me anyway!</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I wanted to *talk* to you. I intervened, to save you before. I, I'm interested in what happens now.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes, well, *thank* you for that, I suppose... And you still haven't told me *why* you "intervened" at all. _[huff]_</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I'm normally neutral, yes. But the loss of this place would have unbalanced the struggle too early. I'm keen to see how it progresses.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You make it sound like there's a... war.</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: _[heh]_ Then I will say nothing further. I wouldn't wish to tarnish your ignorance prematurely. _[giggle]_ Goodbye, Archivist.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: This - wait -</span>

##### [SOUND OF CHAIR OR TABLE SCRAPING AGAINST FLOOR; ARCHIVIST YELLS IN PAIN AGAIN, POSSIBLY FROM MOVING TOO QUICKLY]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Ah... *owww...*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: M-Michael? Michael...!?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Ah. End recording.</span>

##### [CLICK]