---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG080 - #0170216-B - The Librarian"
date:           2017-08-30 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Jurgen Leitner, The Archivist, NotSasha, Elias Bouchard, Martin Blackwood, Timothy Stoker, Helen Richardson, Michael, Gertrude Robinson, Gerard Keay, Jacob Feng, Robert Smirke, John Ruskin, Desmond Lorell, Albert Stross, Thomas McMann, Mary Johnson, Gregory Todd, Leandra Toulouse, NotThem, Domingo, The Seven Lamps of Architecture, A Disappearance, The Key of Solomon, Books, The Tunnels, Scopophobia, Xenophobia, Maniaphobia, The Eye, The Stranger, The Spiral]
statement_of:   [Jurgen Leitner]
statement_to:   [The Archivist]
recorder:       [Direct]
voiced:         [Mystery Figure, Jurgen Leitner, The Archivist, Elias Bouchard, Timothy Stoker, Martin Blackwood]
episode_title:  The Librarian
episode_number: '080'
case_number:    '0170216-B'
statement_date: 2017-02-16
recording_date: 2017-02-16
event_date:     2017-02-16
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag80-thelibrarian
pdf:            https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BwU6M4sYgbYdOUhKdjFwLTRfY2M/view?usp=drivesdk
accessible_pdf: https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BwU6M4sYgbYdVDRpMko0X2F5ZHM/view?usp=drivesdk
official:       true
wiki_url:       https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_80:_The_Librarian
---

##### [CLICK] [CLICK]

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Please! I don't know how much time we have.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So you said.</span>

##### [PIPE IS PLACED ON TABLE]

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Is that necessary? You think I pose a danger to you?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes. Yes I do.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Then take it with you, but I can't afford to just sit here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So talk fast.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Could we at least have this conversation in the tunnels?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm not going back down there. That thing... Is it dead?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Unlikely. Whether something like that can actually be destroyed... It is trapped. I, I hope for a very long time.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And Sasha... The real one?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Was that her name? I'm afraid she's gone. Whatever it does to those it takes, they don't come back. She's dead.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Do you need a moment?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No. No, I'm... You're not what I expected.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I suppose not. My family emigrated when I was very young. English was always my first language. I used to adopt an accent sometimes when meeting people, a sort of personal joke, but truth be told, my Norwegian is terrible. Now, are you going to help me or not?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You first. You want my help, you answer my questions. Agreed?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Agreed.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Good. Good.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement of Jurgen Leitner. February 16th, 2017. Statement begins.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: You're quite like her, you know. I suppose that's no surprise. Anyway, your questions?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. Let's start with what you did down there. How you... trapped it.</span>

##### [BOOKS ARE PLACED ON TABLE]

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: An unexpurgated copy of Ruskin's _The Seven Lamps of Architecture,_ published in 1845. Of course, Ruskin didn't even begin writing the book until 1846, and the text of this one varies markedly from the version that was distributed. It gives an acute sense of the walls pressing in around you, and if consumed recklessly, will physically entomb the reader.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Over the years, I have found that it interacts with Smirke's architecture, and those tunnels specifically, in a more predictable way. By carefully reading specific passages in certain locations, I am able to exercise... a degree of control over the substance of the tunnels.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I didn't hear you say anything down there.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I said reading. It doesn't need to be spoken aloud.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. So you can change the tunnels?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I can. Though even setting aside the obvious dangers, it's a time-consuming and imprecise process. That said, I will admit that when you began to explore again, I... closed off certain passages, and remade others. I, I wanted to keep you contained while deciding whether to make contact.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You moved the tunnels for me?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: The upper levels, yes. Made them more rational, actually. It didn't strike you as odd that you were able to map them in a matter of weeks?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I thought I was just getting a sense of the place. I suppose you left the rubbish around for me as well, giving me hints? And the arrow?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: No. I thought I was being very careful cleaning up after myself, but you have keener eyes than I gave you credit for. I should have expected that, I suppose.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: The arrow, however, was not mine. The 'Not-Sasha' had come down several times. I suspect it was almost as curious about me as you were.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Perhaps it thought you might have better luck flushing me out. I suppose, in a way, it was right. In retrospect, using _The Seven Lamps_ so much was perhaps unwise. It is possible I unbalanced Smirke's architecture somewhat, however cautious I might have tried to be.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And the other book?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Hardly a **book.** Barely twelve pages. It is entitled _A Disappearance._ If read cover to cover, it removes one from the world. I cannot say precisely what that means, only that the assistant I assigned to it, Jacob Feng, was never seen again.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I have found, however, that reading only one or two words is sufficient to hide me from the prying eyes of your master. It allowed me to talk with Gertrude in relative safety, and occasionally come above ground for my own ends.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: My master? We'll get to that. How long have you been down there?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Hard to say. I've been in hiding for over twenty years now, ever since my library was destroyed.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Obviously I have not spent all that time below your Institute. The old Millbank prison tunnels stretch out a very long way, and there are other entrances than the one below the Archives. I have a small number of... secure locations, though since Gertrude's death I have been reluctant to leave the tunnels. I dislike spending too much time in the open.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I am **always** being hunted. Both by creatures like the ones you have encountered, and by certain human individuals who believe I am to blame for the books that destroyed their loved ones. Three years ago, I made the mistake of spending a full night outside my safehouses. I was almost beaten to death by an angry goth.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[chuckling slightly]_ That'll be our Gerard.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I don't follow.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I wouldn't worry about him. He passed away a couple of years ago.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: That is hardly my point.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So are you to blame?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: For what?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: For the books. Or did you just stick your name on them by accident? Why the 'Library of Jurgen Leitner'?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I... thought that I could control them; that I alone had the knowledge to contain them. Back then, I believed they were simply books. Horrifying, powerful, yes, but with rules, limits that could be charted. I was a fool. I had no idea what forces lay behind them, or that they had other servants that might come searching.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I was ruthless, I will admit that. I don't know how many assistants I sacrificed to learn the secrets of the volumes I collected. Dozens, at least. Only a few escaped with their life and mind intact, and even then they were deeply marked. But I was relentless. I saw myself as a guardian, a reverse Pandora, gathering the evils of the world and locking them away.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: And so I branded them with my seal. I told myself that if any should escape such a mark could help me retrieve them. But I think, in my heart, I dreamed of my work becoming known. That "The Library of Jurgen Leitner" would stand as a symbol of courage and protection. Hubris. I suppose it is fitting punishment that my name has become a watchword for evil, spoken by those who only know it as marking the darkest, most terrible of secrets.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: My name has become a curse.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Tell me from the beginning.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I was born the heir to great wealth. My family used to deal in manufacture: steel, textiles, all sorts. But, by my time, it was largely a matter of extensive property holdings and carefully managed investments. Money making money.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: There was never the need for me to learn anything of worth. I suppose in another life I might have been another rich wastrel, content to squander my inheritance on indulgence and comfort, but I always felt a calling to make something of myself. To matter. I had no interest in politics and, while I was certainly no fool, my attempts at academia were ultimately unsatisfying. Business bored me to tears. The only thing I was ever truly talented at was acquiring things. I suppose you could say I was skilled at shopping.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I don't say that to be glib, nor as a comment on my wealth. I don't mean I gained any satisfaction from wasting money on vulgar Bond Street trinkets. I mean, I had a genuine and pronounced talent for finding items of worth and convincing their owners to part with them. The most valuable things always need to be hunted, and that was where I excelled. It started by simply cross-referencing auction catalogues with local records and slightly obscure books of art history, but soon I had a network of contacts and took dinner with some of the most eccentric curio dealers in the world.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: It was Desmond Lorell that first told me of the books. They were a rumour, as these things always are, and he had **no** idea of the dangers. "Magic books" he called them. He had believed them to be coded spellbooks derived, of all things, from the writings of Merlin!</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Poor Desmond. When he finally found one, an old leather-bound thing titled The Stalwart Hunters' Almanac, he had no idea what to do with it. I suppose, looking back, his death was a very good thing for me. The extent of the mutilation, and how closely it correlated with the passages he had described to me, left little doubt as to the connection. So when I acquired the book myself I took exceptional precautions.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: The thing that surprises me most, I think, is how readily I accepted the existence of the supernatural. I had occasionally made purchases before that that had caused... anomalies, but nothing like those books. Yet as soon as their nature became apparent, I simply accepted it and began to factor it into my dealings with them. It was shortly afterwards I hired my first assistant. A dour man, by the name of Albert Stross. He barely lasted a fortnight.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: It didn't take me long to track down other books like Lorell's, and it seemed like almost overnight I had found my purpose. I was to be the keeper of evil tomes. To begin with, I never gave much thought to their origins; I simply concerned myself with acquiring them, and making sure I had staff I could spare to study them. It was easier than I expected, and I'm always surprised nobody attempted such a thing before me. I suppose few walk away from their first encounter with any desire to look for more, if they walk away at all. And of those that do, none would have had my skill at finding them, or my extensive resources.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Luck played a significant role as well. It was shortly after I had begun to have problems storing them that I discovered the work of the architect Robert Smirke. There were several volumes in my possession that, if kept them close to each other reacted... very badly. But Smirke's writings, his principles of balance between opposing forces, gave me some inkling as to a solution. Today was not the first time my life has been saved by his architecture. I commissioned a house to be built, based on some of his designs, and spent a good deal of time and money gaining access to existing buildings he had worked on, with the aim of storing the books safely. I believe at about that time I commissioned my bookplates and began to label them.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: And then the house was complete, and I had my library. A vast, lopsided structure, by turns cavernous or maze-like, depending on the needs of the inmates. By the end, I had nine hundred and seventy-eight volumes in my library. Some innocuous, some unsettling and some utterly murderous. In the end, I didn't have much time to enjoy my achievement. It was only a few years after the house was complete that the attack came.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: You must understand, I had only ever encountered these dark powers in the form of books or the occasional antique. I had no idea that there were people or creatures out there that served them. So I was not prepared. All my defences were inward facing, to prevent the contents of my library getting out. I suppose getting in must have seemed a trifle.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: It started with the visitors. Almost every day, some stranger would turn up at my door and ask to see my collection. Now, whatever my secret ambitions might have been, I was very careful not to let word get out about what I was doing. And these people, they were... wrong somehow. They didn't move as people should move, and their cadence was very strange when they spoke. They almost always forgot to blink.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Even then I didn't realise what was coming, and simply sent them away with a firm refusal. When it actually happened, it was so all fast I barely had time to register it. One moment, I was typing a new catalogue entry for _A Journal of a Plague Year,_ and the next... everything was screaming. My assistants, the books, even me.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Thomas McMann was stabbed through the throat by something with too many teeth and limbs like knives. Mary Johnson was pulled into a cavernous maw that opened beneath her. Gregory Todd ran into a door that shouldn't have been there. A great hand reached down through the roof and plucked away Leandra Toulouse. And there was one other assistant, whose... whose name I don't recall, but the last I saw of him, he was being pulled into a great, pulsating pile of meat.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I don't know how I escaped. Perhaps because I designed the house, I knew how to best move through it. Perhaps I was sensible enough to steer clear of the rooms that had fallen into darkness, or burned with a fire that seemed to leave the books untouched. Perhaps they let me go. Or perhaps, once again, it was simply luck.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I didn't look back as I fled. Nothing seemed to chase me, at least not then. I had none of the books with me, and that was what they were after. Of course, by the time I realised that, there were many others who were hunting me. Mostly vengeance-minded folk who had lost someone to the books, plastered with my name, that were now free once again. It was easier to let the world think I was dead and, to one degree or another, I've been in hiding ever since.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Huh. You're right.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: About which part?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You **were** a fool.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Hmm.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Why didn't you burn them?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Pride. If they were destroyed, what was I to guard? Even so, I don't believe that would have solved as many problems as you think. Many of them wouldn't have burned, and some even liked the flames. And those that did, I now believe, would have been released to take a different form.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But you didn't know any this when you had almost a thousand of them in your care?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I've spent twenty years trying to learn from my mistakes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You said you didn't take any of them with you, so where did you get these?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: When I started working with Gertrude, she hunted down some editions I thought might help.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And why was Gertrude helping you?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Aside from my knowledge about the books? I think she was lonely. I didn't meet her until about six years ago, after she'd lost the last of her own assistants. She would mention them sometimes. I believe she missed having someone to talk to on occasion.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... I didn't know Gertrude had assistants.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Of course. Three of them, each meeting an unpleasant end. So, when she found me, it seemed natural that we help each other. In this instance, that meant finding certain useful books.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Like _The Key of Solomon?_</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: **That** one was a mistake. I thought that, in the tunnels, there might be the stability to examine it properly, learn something of the forces arrayed against us. But it went wrong. We had to destroy it. I should have known, really. It was one of the few volumes that contained elements of several different powers.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You keep talking about these... powers? These forces arrayed against you. What are they?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: _[Sighing]_ I'd hoped you would at least know that much by now. But I suppose you are simply the observer, and making these connections is not your role. Gertrude could be much the same at times.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Just tell me!</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: There are... entities in this world. Beings of vast, dark power. Perhaps it would be more accurate to say they are 'next to the world', rather than in it. Their true existence could not function in the universe we live in, at least not as it is now. They have nothing in their pure state that could be present in the physical world so they sit in...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Different dimensions.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: No, I don't think so. If there are such things, then these beings are linked inexorably to ours. They are not within our world, but they can... affect it in certain ways: reaching out with their will to change things. I don't know where they come from or how they came to exist, but they are, from what I can determine, effectively eternal.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Are you... are you trying to tell me all of this is at the behest of... evil gods?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Oh, there are certainly those who see them as gods. A few even go so far as to try and worship them, but I don't find it helpful to think of them like that. Perhaps you could liken them to one of the old pantheons, each with its own rituals, agendas and spheres of influence, but I find simplifying them in such a way makes them harder to truly understand.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: The 'gods' were conceived of by humankind as a reflection of themselves, their motives and actions divinely powerful, but in essence purely human. These... 'things'... I find them hard enough to understand without trying to force human frameworks onto them.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So the creatures are, what, priests? These books their holy texts?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I told you it was an unhelpful analogy. Let's try another one. Um... Imagine, you are an ant, and you have never before seen a human. Then one day, into your colony, a huge fingernail is thrust, scraping and digging. You flee to another entrance, only to be confronted by a staring eye gazing at you. You climb to the top, trying to find escape and, above you, can see the vast dark shadow of a boot falling upon you. Would that ant be able to construct these things into the form of a single human being? Or would it believe itself to be under attack by three different, equally terrible, but very distinct assailants?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So the books, the monsters, they're part of these beings? Just extensions of them? Fingers being pushed into our world?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: The books are, I think, their essences in a purer form. The other things that stalk us, from what I know of them, they have varying wills of their own. All in service of the thing they're a part of, but not directly controlled by the mind beneath them. At least, inasmuch as these entities have something we could recognise as a mind.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Like a... a, a muscle, spasming on reflex?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Yes, that's actually rather good.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It would explain Michael's identity issues.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Michael? Oh... that, that's what the Distortion calls itself these days, isn't it? That one is part of a power that my assistant Domingo used to call "Esmentiaras", which I believe translates as 'it is lies' or 'it is lying'. At the time, of course, we just used it as a way to classify books. I call it the Spiral. It deals in fooling the senses, in making you see and hear things that are not there, in drawing you into mazes and making you doubt your own sanity.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Fractals.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Yes. It seems to have a particular fondness for them.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What about bones? Does one of them manifest with, with bones?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: ##### [HEAVY SIGH]</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: You're thinking too literally. Examining the physical categorisation, but ignoring the meaning of the thing. What are the bones? In the Distortion, your "Michael", the structure of a skeleton, an established reality in **your** mind, is twisted and warped into an impossible form. But in other cases? Are they a symbol of slaughter and butchery? Are they the familiar made wrong? Or are they simply part of the messy, physicality of flesh?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm sorry, this is a lot to take in.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Well, do so quickly. We've wasted enough time on your questions.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Fine. Then I'll make this one simple: did you kill Gertrude?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: No. Don't be absurd.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Then who did?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: This is a distraction! You're in no danger - </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: **Who?**</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I believe it was Elias.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What? Why?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I assume he discovered we were planning to destroy the Archives.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Gertrude was going to destroy the Archives?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: This is why I need those files. I searched this place thoroughly, and they're not here, so I assume Elias took them when he killed her. I need your help to get into his office.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But the cameras? They showed him.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Simple mechanical eyes? In **his** place of power? You think he can't control everything they see? Assuming such interference wouldn't ruin them beyond recovery, of course.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: This place belongs to one of them, doesn't it?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: You know the answer to that.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The Eye.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I have also heard it called Beholding.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And I...</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: You belong to it, too.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... Uh... I... I think I need some air.</span>

##### [SOUND OF FUMBLING IN DRAWER]

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: We don't have time for you to have a breakdown, Archivist.</span>

##### [CHAIR SCRAPES ON FLOOR]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm going to have a cigarette. Don't...</span>

##### [DOOR OPENS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Don't.</span>

##### [DOOR CLOSES]

##### [SILENCE]

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: I'm not sure you would have liked him, you know. He's paranoid enough. But I don't think he's got the stomach for it.</span>

##### [SILENCE]

##### [DOOR OPENS]

##### [SURPRISED BREATH]

##### [CLICK]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Well. This **is** a surprise.</span>

##### [CHAIR SCRAPES ON FLOOR]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Reach for a book and I **will** kill you.</span>

##### [CHAIR SCRAPES BUT SLOWER, AS IF RESUMING SEAT]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: How much have you told him?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Enough.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: About Gertrude?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: No. No, I didn't have time.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I've wondered for **so** long who it could be down there. Who was helping her. I honestly never would have guessed.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: How did you know I was here?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I didn't. You're very well hidden. But John is not, and he failed to take the same precautions I'm sure you took for granted with Gertrude. I knew he was talking to someone. And it turns out to be Jurgen Leitner himself. _[Soft chuckling]_ What an honour.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: _[Begging]_ Elias, please!</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: What did you want from him?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: The files. The ones you took from Gertrude.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Planning a little light arson, are we, Jurgen?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: It's not just the Institute and you know it. They had everything she had found on the Stranger.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I know. It's, um... what do they call it?</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: The Unknowing.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: _[Chuckles]_ Creativity never was their forte.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: You of **all** people should want to stop them.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: And we will. But I don't think we'll need your help.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: And what's he going to think when he gets back?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Well, he was always going to need to fly the nest at some point. Go out and see the world for himself.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: He might die.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: It's always a danger. Almost always.</span>

<span class="leitner">LEITNER: Elias, it doesn't have to be like - </span>

##### [EXTENDED SOUNDS OF BRUTAL PIPE MURDER]

##### [PIPE DROPS AND ROLLS]

##### [DOOR OPENS, CLOSES]

##### [SILENCE EXCEPT FOR THE SOUND OF DRIPPING]

##### [DEAD SILENCE]

##### [DOOR OPENS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sorry, I've been quit for five years now, but th - </span>

##### [STUNNED SILENCE]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh god... I need to... Uh... I need to, um... _[trails off almost incoherently]_</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="tim">TIM: I think it's working again.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Tim, where were we?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: ...yeah, yeah it's recording.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Forget the bloody tapes, Tim! Are we sure this is... this is here?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Yes. Because the tape works now.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: How long was it?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I don't know. And I don't care.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Sorry? Sorry, what? How can you not **care**!?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Because this is us now. Worms. Monsters. Corridors. They'll keep happening until one of them kills us, and we've just got to deal with it.</span>

##### [SIGH]

<span class="tim">TIM: Any sign of the woman?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I don't think so. We should have helped her.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: No.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: But we could have tried!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: How?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Look. There's no point talking about it. It happened. I hope it doesn't happen again. Statement fucking ends.</span>

##### [SILENCE]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: We... we should look for John. Maybe we can still help.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: It's been days. At least.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: We can't just sit here moping!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: It's probably already killed him.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Don't joke about that, okay?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Fine.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Tim!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Try his office.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah. Right.</span>

##### [DOOR OPENS TO THE SOUND OF DRIPPING]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: John?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh. Oh no.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I told you he was going to do something like this.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, no, no... Who is it?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I told you.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh John... What have you done?</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


<span class="martin">MARTIN: ### THE MAGNUS ARCHIVES WILL RETURN LATE 2017</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Season 2 has featured:</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - [Jonathan Sims](https://jonathan-sims.com/) as __The Archivist__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - [Alexander J. Newall](https://alexanderjnewall.com/) as __Martin Blackwood__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - [Mike LeBeau](https://twitter.com/mikey_scamp) as __Tim Stoker__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - [Ben Meredith](http://rustyquill.com/ben-meredith/) as __Elias Bouchard__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - [Eve Hewitt](https://twitter.com/Evelyn_Hewett) as __Not!Sasha__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - [Frank Voss](https://twitter.com/AvoidedDrowning) as __PC Basira Khan__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - [Lydia Nicholas](https://twitter.com/lydnicholas) as __Melanie King__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - __Sue Sims__ as __Gertrude Robinson__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - __Imogen Harris__ as __Helen Richardson__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - [Luke Booys](https://twitter.com/lukebooys) as __Michael__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - __Harvey Kesselman__ as __Sergeant Walter Heller__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - __Tim Ledsam__ as __Jordan Kennedy__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - [Fay Roberts](https://www.fayroberts.co.uk/) as __Detective Alice "Daisy" Tonner__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - [Carrie Cohen](https://carriecohen.co.uk/) as __Mary Keay__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - [Fran Bushe](https://twitter.com/franbushe) as __Tessa Winters__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - [Perdita Stott](https://twitter.com/PerditaStott) as __Karolina Górka__</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: - __Paul Sims__ as __Jurgen Leitner__</span>