---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG102 - #0140406 - Nesting Instinct"
date:           2018-05-23 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [François Deschamps, Benoît Maçon, Gertrude Robinson, Gerard Keay, Elias Bouchard, Melanie King, The Archivist, Martin Blackwood, Nikola Orsinov, Jurgen Leitner, Hannah, Lucille, Le Papillon Blanc, Toulouse, France, Beetles, Bugs, Weddings, Contracts, Entomophobia, Scopophobia, Xenophobia, The Corruption, The Eye, The Slaughter, The Stranger]
statement_of:   [François Deschamps]
recorder:       [The Archivist]
voiced:         [Elias Bouchard, The Archivist, Melanie King, Martin Blackwood]
episode_title:  Nesting Instinct
episode_number: '102'
case_number:    '0140406'
statement_date: 2014-06-04
recording_date: 
event_date:     2014-06-04
summary:        "Statement of François Deschamps, regarding the family and presumed marriage of Benoît Maçon. Statement given June 4th 2014."
content_flags:  [Knife violence, Infestation, Mind-control, Unreality, Insects, Unsanitary]
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag102-nestinginstinct
pdf:            https://drive.google.com/file/d/1YH2DpOVXUI_kFCPz9sg3WVkmpFpBYSfJ/view?usp=drivesdk
accessible_pdf: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1z6tQQO5YYSDmdb1ve7MDWc1pcvGb1WuA/view?usp=drivesdk
official:       true
wiki_url:       https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_102:_Nesting_Instinct
---

##### [CLICK]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Look, John, I understand you're upset.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: A month, Elias. And you did what, nothing?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I was doing everything in my power to locate you.</span>

##### [DISMISSIVE SNORT FROM THE ARCHIVIST]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Everyone was working on finding the ritual site.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You didn't tell them I'd been *kidnapped,* though, did you?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: It wouldn't have helped matters. Martin's research, at least, would have been sloppier.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And imagine what might have happened if your rescue had been slower.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Sarcasm isn't going to help, John.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The only thing here that "isn't going to help" is **you**. I am *sick* of relying on the *kindness* of things whose stated intention is to kill me.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: _[Irritated]_ I am sorry, John, that my powers have not yet reached the level of omniscience. And I am sorry that I have to spend so much time trying to help you develop your own faculties, rather than explaining everything to you like a child. But you have a job to do, and I *cannot* fight your battles for you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: As far as I can tell, the only battles *I've* been fighting have been yours and Gertrude's.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I should have thought preventing the horrific transformation of our world is not solely my concern!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Fine. At least we now know you're of zero practical use here. So aside from sending me other people's statements, what can you actually *do* to help?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I have been trying to give you the information you need.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sure, when you're not bashing its head in with a pipe.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Leitner was... I will admit I possibly... overreacted to his sudden re-emergence.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: He could have helped.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You? No. To you he offered nothing but the *crutch* of simple answers. If I hadn't stepped in he could have significantly stunted your development. Left you defenceless.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Sarcastically]_ Yeah. I can't imagine what it must feel like to be defenceless.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I do regret...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Gertrude's notes on the Unknowing are... lacking. I only shared the statements for a reason.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: S - You didn't even know why you were sending me them to me, did you? Just, what, a box of random files she labelled? You were hoping **I** could figure out the reason Gertrude chose them!</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: There is a possibility some of them were misfiled.</span>

##### [DEEP BREATH]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So what do we actually *know?*</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: John-</span>

##### [TABLE SLAP FROM THE ARCHIVIST]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Don't you dare "John" me. If you want my help, I'm going to need that crutch.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Gertrude believed that the Unknowing was going to take the form of a dance. It required a great deal of intact human skin to clothe what she referred to as the, er, the "corpse de ballet", though I suspect that's just her sense of humour. There is also one, the "Danseuse Étoile" that requires a costume of special power or distinction. Gertrude believed that Orsinov and his circus created a dancer specifically for this role.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I've met it. Calls itself Nikola.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: There's also something else in the notes she calls the Choir, but no real detail on that. As far as where it will happen, it's a, a - </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: A wax museum. Old, mostly a-abandoned, I think. I-I don't know exactly where, but - </span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: That still narrows it down significantly. I'll, I'll have the others start digging.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: How do we - How do *I* stop it?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Gertrude seemed to think that once the dance begins it's tied to its location. Sufficiently disrupting that might be enough to derail the ritual. She mentioned she had acquired... something, for this purpose, but she gave no detail as to exactly what that might be.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And you can't just... *See* where she put it.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: She was... She got very good at hiding things from me.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: How embarrassing for you. Is there anyone else who might know what it is, or, or where? Aside from Leitner, or Gerard?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Sorry, Gerard Keay?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh... yes?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: How did you... Who, who told you he was working with Gertrude?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No-one, I-I-I just... I read it in one of the statements.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I don't think you did.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But... ah...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You just *knew* it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What, no, I... Th- That's not a- </span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: No, no, no. No, John, this is good. It's a promising development.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Getting flustered]_ No, No I... It's just, it's just... just deduction or -</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Is this the first time it's happened?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Look, look, I don't - Look... Haaa... Gerard's not really a lead. He's dead. Isn't he?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Yes, but I believe he and Gertrude travelled together, shortly before he passed away. Perhaps if we could retrace their steps, we might find something.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And by "we", you of course mean...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I'll see if I can hunt down a few relevant statem - Ahh.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: _[Sighs]_ Melanie is on her way up here with a knife. Could you talk to her for me?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: O-ah. S-Sorry, what?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: She's hoping that even if I see it coming she'll still be able to overpower me.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Ah-</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: She's wrong, of course, but I'd be keen to avoid that sort of struggle.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: She, She's trying to kill you?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Yes. Again. Even more than the others she has a visceral hatred of being trapped. Regardless of how much freedom I afford her.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't - Uh...</span>

##### [KNOCKING AT DOOR]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Come in, Melanie.</span>

##### [DOOR OPENS]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Elias, hi, just brought- </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Ah...</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: What are *you* doing here?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Put the knife down, Melanie.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Melanie!</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Angrily]_ Get out of my way!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't believe - This isn't the way.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: You haven't been here! You don't know- </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I was kidnapped!</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Oh. Sorry.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I mean, yeah El-Elias... is- </span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Seriously?! Seriously? You too? Has he got everyone fooled? If he dies, we die? It's not even a good lie.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Why would- I mean, why would it not be true? If he's managed to, to bind us... Why wouldn't he be able to, to do that?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: John, look at me. There is only one way out of this, and it is through him.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I get, I get that you hate being here, Melanie, but do you really want to trade it for prison?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: No! But the way I see it, the police seem really keen not to investigate crimes committed here.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: That's actually fair.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Shut up!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Melanie, please.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Frustrated anger]_ It's not just being stuck here, John. It's not just me. He's manipulating you, he's manipulating all of us. Can you seriously not see that? He's pulling all the strings, and I don't think there's any other way to stop it. So get out of my way.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Look, I - I'm sorry, Melanie, but we need him. We, We will... We will find a way to deal with i- with him. Not today. A-And not like this.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I **am** still here, you know.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And if you weren't, I assume you would be watching this conversation, so... Melanie, we can't do this. Not yet.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: ...</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Alright.</span>

##### [METAL CLINKS ON TABLE]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: We'll try it your way. But whatever your way *actually* is, you'd better figure it out fast. Because it is your fault that I'm here. Fix it, or get out of the way!</span>

##### [DOOR SLAMS SHUT]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Thank you, John.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Hissed]_ Shut up!</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement of François Deschamps, regarding the family and presumed marriage of Benoît Maçon. Statement given June 4th, 2014. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement begins.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Why do you need me to live it over again? To recount a story you know well enough already.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): You were there, at least for the parts worth discussing. You want me to tell you what happened before then? How I met Benoît? His character? How he became my friend?</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Truth be told, he was not my friend. He was simply a colleague, someone I might describe myself as well-disposed to, but probably not even that. It may seem dismissive to you, but in my experience there are two situations where one finds themselves working behind a bar when over the age of forty. The first is that you own the establishment yourself, what the English call 'a publican', and see no reason to hire others to perform duties you are quite capable of yourself.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The second is when a profound failure in your life has brought you to the middle of your life with no wealth, no prospects, and no skills that could be applied in more lucrative avenues. Suffice it to say that Benoît Maçon did not own Le Papillon Blanc.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It was not one of the most fashionable spots in Toulouse, sitting just on the edge of where the tourist-facing centre meets the firmly residential, and never quite settling on either side. It billed as a cafe in the day, but most of its business was after dark, when all pretence was dropped, and it became simply a comparatively cheap place to drink. I worked the bar there with Benoît and a few others, and had done for a couple of years since I left school. Of all the others who worked Le Papillon alongside me, I would probably have said that Benoît was the one who interested me the least. There was an air of sadness about him, a melancholy that I found unsurprising, given the position he had found himself in, but distasteful nonetheless. My own life has certainly had its hardships, and I cannot help but detest those who indulge in self-pity. Though... having seen his fate, perhaps some pity was earned.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Benoît was, as far as I could tell, all alone in the world, and rather unhappy about the fact. It was rare that the topic of parents or family would be raised or discussed without his appearing, as if from nowhere, to quietly volunteer the fact that his parents were dead, or his lack of siblings, or whatever it might have been. Whatever familial bond was the topic of conversation, Benoît Maçon did not have it, and expected, no, demanded that you pity him for the fact. It will not surprise you to learn he wore no wedding ring. That when a young couple would enter the cafe to pass their time in wine and affection, he would simply stare at them, his face a mask of ill-concealed envy. I am deeply grateful it was rare that we had children in Le Papillon, as the one time they came in while he was on shift with him, he vanished for almost twenty minutes and, when he returned, it was clear he'd been crying. All told, he was a pathetic, lonely man desperate for any human connection. A connection I had no intention of offering him.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Quite frankly, I believe I have spoken more words about Benoît Maçon in the last five minutes than I did in all the many months we worked together. I wasn't even the one that noticed the changes in his behaviour. That was our manager Lucille. About five weeks ago, she offhandedly asked me if I knew of any "alteration" in Benoît's personal or home life. He had, so she told me, been significantly more cordial with her over the previous few days. He had been smiling, laughing, generally not acting like himself. I told her I didn't know and hadn't noticed, but the next shift I saw what she meant. It was as though a different man were wearing the skin of Benoît, a man who had always known the deep joys of life.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I watched this new person go about their happy life for almost an entire night before I finally decided that I simply had to ask him what had happened. At first he appeared puzzled by my question, but when I told him how much happier he seemed, his smile grew wide. He leaned in close to me and looked around playfully, as if pretending to check for eavesdroppers. "A woman," he said at last, "François, I am in love. And she loves me!" And then, without warning he grabbed me with both arms and pulled me into a short embrace, which I was simply too stunned to resist.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Up close, I could not help but notice the faintest of odours from his skin. It was a damp smell, like decaying wood, and it wasn't until I had a chance to shower and change my clothes after work that I finally managed to rid myself of it completely. It was not a pleasant smell, certainly, but it was not *awful.* What bothered me was its presence at all. I knew Benoît to be a clean, almost fastidious man, prone to wearing slightly too much cologne. This was new, and beyond that there was... something to the smell itself, some memory of a childhood spent in the country around Lyon, of wandering out in the damp heat after a summer rain, of turning over logs slick with moisture, to reveal the crawling underbelly beneath them. But for the most part I ignored it. After all, if I could remain unconcerned about Benoît when he was miserable, doing so when he was happy hardly seemed like a challenge.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): And indeed, he continued to be happy, almost to the point of bliss, for almost the entire month following. The smell was growing ever so gradually stronger, to the point where I would occasionally see my colleagues wrinkle their noses when he went to talk to them, but it never quite reached the stage where it felt worth bringing up with Lucille. Benoît's hygiene more generally also started to noticeably decline. At first, his shirts would be wrinkled when he arrived for work, when before I had only ever seen him wear them crisply ironed. Then there were small stains or tears that could be spotted, as his clothes seemed to be washed less and less regularly. Again, none of this was glaringly obvious, and if his behaviour hadn't drawn my attention, it's likely I never would have noticed it at all. Certainly none of the patrons of Le Papillon Blanc ever seemed bothered by his appearance or cleanliness.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Through all of it, he would talk incessantly to anyone who would listen about this woman who had apparently changed his life, "mon petit scarabée", his little beetle. I was never able to get her actual name from Benoît, as he only seemed to refer to her by that weird nickname. Clear details were also difficult to establish: he could talk for an hour over what his little beetle had told him over breakfast, but when asked about what she did, where she was from, what she looked like, he would always find a way to talk around it and shift the conversation in a new direction. We managed to establish that she had children, as Benoît would often make reference to "the little ones", his eyes lighting up with parental pride. They couldn't have been his, obviously, but that didn't seem to matter to him. But, as with their mother, solid details about these children were almost impossible to establish. I would have suspected this new family of his wasn't even real, were it not for the fact that he was clearly not faking his joy or contentment. Either his "petit scarabée" was real, or Benoît was suffering from a very complex delusion indeed. It never occurred to me it might have been both.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It was... two days ago that it happened. I was thinking earlier how unlikely it was, to have been looking so precisely at such a specific spot at such a specific time as to make me absolutely sure of what I witnessed. If I had glanced over a second later or only caught it from the corner of my eye, I could easily have dismissed it. After all, the simple presence of insects is not, in and of itself, remarkable. It was the where this particular insect came from, however, that shook me so deeply. Benoît was leaning over the bar, listening to a young man who, I believe, was ordering for quite a large group. As this customer listed off his drinks, Benoît's hand rested lightly upon the countertop, and I found, for no reason I could readily provide, my gaze was resting upon the fingers of his hand.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Without any warning, or reaction from Benoît himself, there seemed to be movement from the ring finger of his right hand. A slight shudder, a shifting of the skin beneath his fingernail. A small patch of darkness seemed to grow just below it, expanding until it resolved itself into the shape of an insect. It pushed itself smoothly and quickly out from below his fingernail and dropped down onto the bar, scuttling away and out of sight so quickly I lost it almost immediately. It had all happened in a matter of moments, and there was no blood, no reaction from Benoît, no evidence that it had truly happened at all, apart from my shaking legs and the feeling I was going to collapse. And it was in that state that your associate found me.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): At the time I thought he was your son. His French was significantly better than yours, and it took some time and some difficulty translating before I could fully explain to you what had happened. You rebuffed all my questions about your interest in Benoît and his situation, as you resolutely have since. I am... telling you my story, since you have asked so nicely, but I will never truly forgive either of you for what you have shown me. I should have been more suspicious of this man, too old for his poorly dyed hair, leading me to an old woman who promised me answers in exchange for an address. I should have walked away. I shouldn't have offered to go with you. But I was in shock from what I had seen, and I believe you could have told me to do almost anything, and I would have been unlikely to argue. You tried to cross-examine me about things I didn't understand: "Étranger ou la saleté?" I honestly had no idea what you were talking about, but I didn't put up a fight when you told me to get Benoît's address. I don't know why you agreed when I asked to come with you. I wish you hadn't.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Do you really need me to describe it? You saw it for yourselves. The flowing tide that swarmed and scuttled as soon as the door opened. The smell that rolled out of that apartment like a choking wall. The *thing* that embraced Benoît. Mon petit scarabée. The only thing I don't know is if you saw in as much detail as I did the look of sheer contentment and joy on poor Benoît's face as his family crawled all over him. I don't care about what the police might have done; your young colleague was right. You should have burned the place to the ground. I have nothing more to say to you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement ends.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Th - _[Sighs]_</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: This is, um...</span>

##### [PAPER RUSTLING]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: This is written in French. A-All of it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't... I don't speak French. I-I don't read... I've never...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Sigh]_ I wish I could find it in myself to be surprised.</span>

##### [MORE PAPER RUSTLING]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Er, statement, it seems, given directly to Gertrude. Though not apparently recorded. Did she perhaps leave her tape recorder at home when she took this little 'field trip' with Gerard? June 2014. Barely a year before her murder, and less than half that before Gerard Keay's brain tumour would lead to his own death. Did he know already? That his life was ending? Was he trying to accomplish one last good deed before the end? Were they both?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: "Étranger ou la saleté?" Foreigner or dirt. Stranger or Filth. I can see why with limited information Mr. Deschamps' account could lend itself to either interpretation: sudden appearance of a vague and previously unknown figure inserting itself into someone's life on the one hand, and on the other... bugs and bad smells. Let it never be said the Hive and its ilk are subtle. Still, closer examination points pretty conclusively in that direction. It must have been a disappointment, especially if, as I suspect, Gertrude and Gerard were searching for information on the Unknowing.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Basira did some cursory follow-up on the statement itself. Benoît Maçon definitely died in late June 2014, but the Toulouse police records regarding the matter are firmly sealed. François Deschamps has refused our request for a follow-up interview. He did forward us one item, however. *[Snorts]* I can't read the French on this one, but it appears to be a crudely printed wedding invitation. Benoît Maçon is the only name legible on it, as most of the details are obscured by a wide variety of dried stains.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Most helpful of all, though, is the simple fact that Gertrude was in Toulouse in June 2014. The information I found from her laptop doesn't give a complete picture of her travels, but now I know when to look, and it appears that when she left Toulouse she did not return to London. Instead, it looks like she took several connecting flights, eventually ending up in Wellington International Airport in New Zealand. I can't find any other details on the computer, but I'm going to ask the others to see if they can hunt down any statements referencing New Zealand in or around mid-2014. It might be a wild goose chase, but it's the best lead I have.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: In the meantime I... I have a new flat. I should try to get comfortable, change the locks. Even if I might need to be leaving it for a while. Oh, and... I suppose I... I did tell Georgie I'd try to talk to Martin.</span>

##### [DEEP SIGH]

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You're sure you don't mind?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No, no, no, it's fine, I've... I've kind of stop noticing if I'm honest. They just sort of... turn themselves on these days.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Look I'm, I'm *so* sorry, John, I - Elias didn't even tell any of us that you'd been kidnapped. I didn't know - No-one else was telling me - And there wasn't any -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh. Hey.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Hey, hey, hey... It's alright, it's alright. Elias didn't tell anyone, there was, there was no way you could have known. I-I mean, I wasn't exactly here before.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No, you weren't.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: But I'm sure that if you could have been, you would have.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Are you alright? They didn't hurt you?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No. No, no, I'm... I'm okay. Just - I mean my skin's in better condition than... ever.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Is that a weird thing to say?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: A bit?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It was basically all she talked about. Orsinov. I-It was- How's everyone been?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, well, we've, we've been fine. I mean... Well, not great. Tim's still... not doing well. Melanie seems okay, but I get the feeling she's... I don't know, planning something?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I - I got that feeling too.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Basira's the only one doing - well, she seems weirdly calm about the whole thing. Like it's... like she's on a vacation or something.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Maybe she just suits the academic life. What about Daisy?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Don't see her much. Which is fine by me.</span>

##### [UNCOMFORTABLE SILENCE]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Does the rest of the Institute know what's going on down here? I mean, I never really paid attention, but...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: N-Not really? I think? I mean, Tim's been going on about it to anyone who listens, but I think they just... think he's had a bit of a breakdown.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well, I mean...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I mean, *they* can quit.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Hannah just left to have her baby, though.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't know who that is.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah you do - Hannah? She works in the library. Black, kind of stocky. Had that whole thing with the milk in the break room last year?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, er... Sorry. I really don't...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Well, anyway, I... Well, I think they all just see the Archives as kind of weird and leave us to it. Y'know? Better us than them.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I mean, they're not wrong.</span>

##### [MORE UNCOMFORTABLE SILENCE]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So... are you coming back or...?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I-I-I don't know. Probably not yet. There's a lot of... I-I think I might be on a bit of a treasure hunt.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Treasure in the sense of the... the world not ending.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I will keep in touch. I'm, I'm going to need all of you digging into stuff.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: E-Elias mentioned... he said you'd been... reading statements?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh... uh... yeah.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Um... He thought it might help.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. I-I-I mean, they're not... They haven't...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You've been okay?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: B-B... Yeah. I mean, i-it wasn't *fun,* but... I mean, if it, if it helps then I - </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Okay. If you're sure, just... Make sure the others help you, alright? Statements can be... If you're not used to them it can... be a bit weird.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Er... Sure.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: An-Anyway, I-I-I should go. I-I've got a few leads to follow up.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Right, right.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm, I'm sorry, Martin. We haven't... I know we haven't talked much since... Sasha and everything.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Well, I mean it's not too late, y'know. Unless the world ends.</span>

##### [MARTIN LAUGHS NERVOUSLY]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah.</span>

##### [CLICK]