---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG106 - #0081002 - A Matter Of Perspective"
date:            2018-06-20 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Jan Kilbride, Manuela Dominguez, Carter Chilcott, Melanie King, Elias Bouchard, Basira Hussain, Martin Blackwood, Georgina Barker, The Archivist, Simon Fairchold, Fairchild Family, The Daedalus, Ivy Meadows Care Home, Space, Science, Academia, Contracts, Agorophobia, Scopophobia, Isolophobia, Entomophobia, The Vast, The Eye, The Lonely, The Corruption, The Slaughter]
statement_of:    [Jan Kilbride]
recorder:        [Melanie King]
voiced:          [Melanie King, Basira Hussain, Elias Bouchard]
episode_title:   A Matter Of Perspective
episode_number:  '106'
case_number:     '0081002'
statement_date:  2008-02-10
summary:         "Jan Kilbride’s account of his time spent aboard the space station Daedalus. Statement date February 10th 2008."
content_flags:   [existential horror, grief, emotional cruelty, unreality, gaslighting]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag106-amatterofperspective
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Qz_CccltrvaHj8QGG69xLd1-NZmgE_5gZVwK6uHFo6M/edit?usp=sharing
unofficial:      https://snarp.tumblr.com/
unofficial_name: snarp
official:        false
wiki_url:        https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_106:_A_Matter_Of_Perspective
---

##### [CLICK]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Jan Kilbride's account of his time spent aboard the space station, uh, Daedalus. Statement date February 10, 2008. Melanie King recording.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Start.</span>

##### [CLAP]

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): The hardest thing to imagine, to really get your head around, is, is the scale at which the universe operates. You can drill down so small that you reach particles and building blocks that your brain simply can't connect to. The physical reality that you inhabit, the fact that the vast majority of your own body is empty vacuum space, filled only with the weak forces that are binding you disparate atoms to one another - that can only really be understood an intellectual level. To really internalize that thought, to believe it, would be too much for most people.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): And the other end - the sheer size at which the universe operates - literally cannot be fully conceptualized by the human mind. We have to reduce it to factors, or long strings of comparative zeros. Most people can't even properly appreciate the size of our own planet, seeing only in crudely rendered diagrams or maps. But compared to us, the planet is immense. More than large enough for the swell of humanity to grow, and ultimately extinguish itself.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): Yet compared to the wider universe, it isn't even a noticeable speck. The human mind would reflexively want a place at the midway point, a perfect center balanced between the incredible size of the universe and the unthinkable smallness of the subatomic. But this is nothing but ego; a manifestation of our obsession with considering us some sort of a normative benchmark against which all else is measured. In truth, we are so much closer to the tiny, mindless atoms that make up our bodies than we are to a universe so enormous that fully imagining it is simply impossible.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): Even with all I've seen, I still can't communicate it. I can't make people actually understand how horridly, nauseatingly boundless this universe is, and when I think of it too deeply, I feel like I'm going to throw up. Like a sort of existential vertigo.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): It never used to scare me like this. I used to take a sort of comfort in it, in the thought that we were so small; such a minor blip in the life of the universe. Where others saw insignificance and pointlessness, I found freedom. A sort of optimistic nihilism, I suppose.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): I know now it was all just denial, of course. It's not easy to be scared of something that you can't even think about. I miss those days: smoking out the window of a tower block, looking out over the lights of the city blinking up in defiance of the void, and thinking how daft it was. Like an ant shaking its fist at a god.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): I think that's really why I wanted to go to space - to put it all in perspective. That for one moment, I could look down and see it all, every human that ever existed, the living and the dead, hanging below me on a tiny ball of carbon.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): And you know what? It was worth it. At least, I thought so at the time. That moment, that first look at the earth falling away below us, it was everything I dreamed it would be. And how often is that true? The Daedalus was in low enough orbit that I never got the whole planet in view, as I had hoped. But it didn't matter. The first time, looking down and taking in the sheer scale of it, remains the most magnificent sensation I have ever experienced.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): I don't know how they picked me for the mission. A representative of some private consortium approached me about a year beforehand. I'd put in my application a few times, but I, I never really expected anything. I had all the skills, but I knew I wasn't anyone's first choice of astronaut. I simply wasn't exceptional enough.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): Also, I thought... Mr. Fairchild didn't mention exactly why I was chosen, though he did reference my psychiatric profile a few times in the interview. I didn't want to press him too hard on the reasoning in, in case I somehow lost the opportunity. Idiot.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): There were technically three of us up there, although I only really spent any time with Manuela. The other one who came up with us - Chilcott, I think his name was - he was apparently doing some sort of separate isolation study. Can't say I envied him. The door to his section of the station was daunting, to say the least. I mean, I'm an engineer, and honestly it looked like it was sturdier than the actual hull.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): Manuela and I were instructed not to attempt any communication with him, and to be honest, that was fine by me. On those occasions we had to call in to his little chamber through the intercom, usually as part of maintenance or a systems check, he always sounded so distant. This flat, tinny monotone that set my teeth on edge, like a subtle vibration.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): So we left him to it. We had plenty of our own work to do, anyway. Manuela Dominguez was quite a big name in certain areas of the physics community - or, at least, she had been. I hadn't heard of any work she'd done for a good few years. And, as I say, I'm more on the engineering side of things, so it wasn't really something I kept up with in detail.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): While she was happy to talk, Manuela apparently didn't like to discuss her professional life on Earth, or the specifics of the research she was doing on the Daedalus. Like Chilcott, her research was kept entirely separate from mine. And while we spent plenty of time together, I never did figure out exactly what it was. Something to do with lasers, I think.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): As for my job, to be honest, it felt disappointingly like busy work. Stress-testing, zero gravity effects, material evaluations - for every test I was told to do, I could have listed a half dozen studies citing similar research from the ISS, most of which had had pretty conclusive results. If you had told me I was just being instructed to do the same things they did over there, but two years later, I'd have been hard-pressed to argue.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): But there was something else. A different sort of worry that was building up inside me. It was like a gradual increase of air pressure: you never notice it happening until your ears pop. I didn't realize how intense the sensation had gotten until, all at once, I knew what it was - what I was feeling.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): It was the sense of a presence, of there being something out there. Something that wasn't the earth. And it was getting closer.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): When it started, I tried to talk to Manuela about it, but she seemed to think I was talking about aliens and quickly changed the subject. I suppose, in a way, I was, but nothing like she was imagining. "Alien" might be the best word for that presence, but not because we were sat on the edge of outer space; but because what it made me feel was beyond anything I had words for.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): And still it grew closer. When this thing, this being finally called out, I didn't just hear it. I felt it, vibrating through me with such a shuddering intensity that I was sure my bones would break into powder inside my skin.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): The whole station shook violently, rattling and pitching. My first instinct was to check that the Earth was still below us, and not the victim of some dreadful cosmic disaster. But when I reached the window, it still hung there, serene below us.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): As I looked, I saw drops of red floating through the air in front of me. I reached up to my ears, and my hand came away wet. Don't try to tell me sound can't travel in a vacuum, I know. I pushed off towards my quarters and the medical kit, but as I began to move through the station, I stopped. I didn't grab or hit anything, I did nothing to slow my momentum, I just stopped. Floating there motionless, feeling like the whole of existence was frozen in place.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): Then slowly, carefully, I went to grab one of the handles, to pull myself out of this zero-gravity limbo. But I couldn't reach. The station was cramped so cramped that I could only fully stretch out in the section used to exercise, but now, somehow, in this tiny corridor, I couldn't reach the walls. I flailed and I grabbed and I shouted, but somehow, it was all just too far away.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): And I knew all at once that I would float there motionless until I died, and I saw the pointless illusion of the station - of the planet below - all hiding me from the uncaring expanse of the universe, in which I was now eternally trapped. The station was a hollow pretense of a shell that did nothing to separate me from the void.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): And that cry came again, so loud and long and deep that it couldn't not be the sound of a living thing, so vast and so ancient that thinking about it made me weep. And I screamed in turn.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): My hands touched the rail at the exact moment that Manuela came to check on me. I was moving again. She asked if I was alright, though she clearly had no interest in the answer. She said she'd felt the station shake, but when I pressed, she claimed she hadn't heard anything. Her eyes were red, and I noticed for the first time that the tips of her fingers were burned. I don't know why I asked her, really. I knew then that she hadn't heard it, that she would never hear it. And I felt completely alone. I remember I almost envied Chilcott, because at least he had known what he was signing up for.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): The next month passed more normally, I think - though beyond a certain point, at the edge of everything you've ever known, the word "normal" loses its meaning. Manuela became more and more withdrawn, more focused on her own research, whatever it might have been, while I more or less stopped doing mine entirely. I got no new instructions. I would find myself staring out into space for a few minutes, and then when I checked the time hours would have passed. I don't remember if I slept.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): I honestly can't remember if going out to work on the solar panels was repair work, or if I'd finally been given a new task that required going outside. I just remember sealing the bulky EVA suit and stepping into the airlock, pushing myself out, into the nothing.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): The tether coiled out behind me, spooling meter after meter after meter... but I wasn't going towards the solar panels. Why? Where was I going? I floated slowly off into the empty unending space, and the tether line just kept on going.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): The station drifted further and further away. I could feel myself falling up, falling out, falling off of everything that could be called a world. The station was gone, as was the planet of my birth - everything that gave me my existence. It shrank as I watched, until it became less than the smallest dot.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): I couldn't have been that far away. It's impossible. But I was. I was so far from all existence, surrounded by the vacuum of everything. I could feel my soul trying to expand, to fill never-ending absence. And it hurt.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): I don't know how long I was floating for. I know it was less than a billion years, which is barely a heartbeat in the life of the universe, so how can it really be said to matter?</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): The stars began to wink out, one by one, and I thought - perhaps for a second, perhaps for a hundred years - that I had reached the end of time, and I was watching the gradual fading of the universe. And then I realized the obvious: I could not see the stars because something was blocking them.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): It moved and flowed across my vision. Every motion seemed to snuff out more light. There was no shape to see, no outline that could be drawn of this thing, so dark and enormous I could feel my stomach trying to vomit, my mind trying to expand, to take in the size of what moved between the stars, filling my entire vision and more.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): I knew that if it chose to cry out, it would have destroyed me utterly. And I know that there was no possibility it could ever have noticed I existed.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): I do not believe in God. I can't believe that a being with such limitless power and knowledge would still notice humanity, would understand or care about its existence.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): But I keep thinking back to an old professor of mine, back when I briefly studied neuroscience. Talking about consciousness, about how we still don't honestly know what it is, where it comes from, what aspect of the brain makes it possible. And I wonder if there might not be consciousnesses out there so far beyond our comprehension that we could not properly recognize them as such. Minds so strange and colossal that we would never know they were minds at all. Perhaps, out there in the endless vast, they would not notice or recognize us in return.</span>

<span class="statement melanie-statement">MELANIE (STATEMENT): And I wish that I could convince myself that ignorance was the same thing as safety. But then, how many weeds have you unthinkingly stepped on in your lifetime?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Statement ends.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Oh! That... um, well, that seems... that seems to be... that's all of it? Hmm.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Well, Jan Kilbride definitely returned to Earth with his colleagues, and he certainly seems to have given this statement in person, so... I mean, he did come back somehow. Assuming he ever left. It might have been a hallucination of some sort. Isolation and stress can do odd things to you, of course. _[heh]_ Not to mention the evident insomnia.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: And if it is true - if what Jan Kilbride saw was real, I mean... to be honest, it sounds a bit beyond my paygrade. _[heh]_ Whatever my paygrade is. And I have enough insomnia of my own to deal with.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I did do some checking on the Daedalus - I mean, you've got to do something haven't you? Mr. Kilbride seems to have the right of it, in terms of his job. There have been exactly zero peer-reviewed pieces of research that have in any way referenced or cited studies or tests conducted on the Daedalus. From the point of view of the scientific community, the project might as well have never happened.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Also, I um, I can't find Jan Kilbride. He definitely returned. I found more than one photograph of the trio's arrival back on Earth: Carter Chilcott being attended by medical personnel, and the other two looking tired... but alive. There are also a couple of short newspaper stories mentioning in their safe return.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: But it seems as though Kilbride made his way over to the Institute a few weeks after touchdown, made his statement, and then: nothing. I can't find any sign of him, and neither can Basira or Martin. Not on Earth, at least. I really don't want to say he vanished into thin air, but... he's vanished into something.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Beyond that, there's only a few things worth -</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Are you ready for that drink? </span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Well - oh, yes, yes, just give me a second. Finishing off a statement.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Oh, sorry. I thought, you know, because the door was open...</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Oh, no, no, I just needed a bit of air flow.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah, it's, it is not cool down here.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Summer in the basement, I suppose.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah. You know, speaking of not cool - did Martin say he was coming today?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Wow. Ouch.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Oh, what, you're gonna judge me? I *literally* don't know anyone here you haven't made cry.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: You only know Tim and Martin!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: And Elias.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I made *Elias* cry.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: I don't know, probably. You can be *very* mean.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Hah!]_ Right, well... the jury's still out on Elias. And *anyway,* Martin's always been lovely to *you.*</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Hmm. I don't know, I mean, you should have seen him when I turned up last year. I think he thought I was trying to steal his precious Archivist.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Ahhh. I got the *exact same* when John was hiding out, and came to *me* with his "source on the inside" stuff. Martin was *not* impressed.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _[Ugh]_ That boy needs to relax.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Or at *least* find someone else to fuss over!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah, he's got it *bad.*</span>

##### [PAUSE]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Do you know if he and John ever...</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: No clue, and not interested! Although... according to Georgie, John *doesn't.*</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Like, at all?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Yeah.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah, that does explain some stuff. - wait, hang on, do I, do I know Georgie?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I don't think so. Georgie Barker? She does "What the Ghost".</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: No way. I used to love that show. I mean, the first couple of seasons, at least. Took a weird turn in season three, when they introduced -</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Well, she and John, they, dated...</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I mean, it *was* years ago...</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Huh. I always used to put on podcasts, when I was driving around, you know, when I wasn't on duty. I mean, when Daisy didn't need the radio.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[laughing]_ I literally *cannot* picture Daisy listening to the radio!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: The Archers.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: **No.** _[laughing]_</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Hands of God.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I *actually* do not believe you!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: She *never* missed an episode.</span>

##### [LOUD EXHALATION]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Oh, sorry, do you need to finish up?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: No... I, I actually, I have no idea what I was going to say. I did have more notes on, um, on space, I guess, but, uh... forget it. Let's go.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Alright, well, I should probably go check in with Martin, you know. See if he's in for drinks.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: So you can double-check your gossip.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: I don't gossip! *I have the mind of an investigator.*</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Right, okay. Anyway, *I'll* go find him. I could really do with the walk. Do you want to go ahead, and grab the booth?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah, sure. I can wait. I've got a book.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Of course you do.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [KNOCKING ON DOOR]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Come in, Melanie.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Martin said you wanted to see me?</span>

##### [DOOR CLOSING]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Yes, please come in. I thought it was about time for your first performance review.</span>

##### [MELANIE LAUGHS]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I, um, I didn't even know that was a... well, there wasn't anything scheduled.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: No. Well, given the recent, um, *tensions* in the office -</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Heh]_</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: \- I thought it probably best if you weren't aware of it in advance.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Right.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Less time to prepare, you understand.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Right.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: So. Have a seat.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You've been with us a few months now, I believe.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Yes.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: And how are you finding it?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Is that a joke?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Aside from the obvious, I mean.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Oh, well. I, I suppose it's been unstructured.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Without John around, and with you being sat up here lurking, there's not been a lot of useful direction.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I see </span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I mean, you pick out a statement occasionally, and John might phone in to ask after some scrap of information. But to be honest, no one's even really told me what an "archival assistant" is actually supposed to do.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: So how have you been occupying your time?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[annoyed exhalation]_ Reading, mostly. Doing some of my *own* research.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Into what?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: My *own* projects.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Of course. And plotting my demise.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: When I get a chance, yes.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Hm.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I suppose that doesn't look very good on my review.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Quite frankly, no.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Well, if you need to fire me, I won't make a scene.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: No. No, I'm afraid not.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Sure. _[sigh]_</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I wish I knew the words that would make you believe me.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: *What?* That you are a literal deadman switch? _[muttering]_ For goodness sake...</span>

##### [MELANIE LAUGHS AND INTERJECTS IMPATIENTLY OVER ELIAS AS HE MONOLOGUES AT HER]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You know, if that was the only issue, I could have simply placed the knowledge in your mind.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: What!?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You already have doubts, though. You've been talking with Tim, and have convinced yourself that -</span>

##### [MELANIE LAUGHS]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: \- even if I'm telling the truth, I'm too dangerous to live.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Well.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Whatever I'm planning needs to be stopped -</span>

##### [MELANIE LAUGHS]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: \- even if it cost a few lives. Including your own.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Well, that's not even -</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: A rationalization, of course. A lie about your own selfishness: that you would rather be dead than trapped without the self-determination you prize so highly. I wish I knew the words to convince you it's for the best.</span>

##### [PAUSE]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Are we done?</span>

##### [ELIAS RESUMES MONOLOGUING, MELANIE RESUMES MAKING EXASPERATED NOISES OVER HIM]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: It's too deep. I can see almost anything I care to -</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[muttering]_ *Christ.*</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: \- _\{\{retrieve? weave?\}\}_ knowledge from someone's mind, or place it there. But I just *cannot* change the nature of a person. And I am struggling to think of what could rid you of this misguided rage.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: So let me go! Or, kill me!</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You know, that is the second such ultimatum I've heard in as many weeks. But no. There are always other options. And I am not above threats.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Threaten, then. I've got nothing.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: That's... almost true. Your life is indeed shockingly absent of any meaningful connections. That's actually one of the reasons I chose you for this job.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Your father was your last real anchor, wasn't he?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: That's none of your business.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Perhaps. Five years is plenty of time to grieve. It's a real tragedy, isn't it. Dementia? Especially so early. But he always remembered you, didn't he? "Little moth."</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Shut up.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: At least you got him into a decent care home. Hard to afford on an irregular income like yours, but your mother's life insurance helped plenty.</span>

##### [MELANIE IS BREATHING HARD, POSSIBLY REPRESSING TEARS]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: And Ivy Meadows wasn't as expensive as some of them. It's a shame about the fire. But I would have thought it would offer something of a relief.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: What are you talking about?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Oh. Of course. They told you he died in his sleep, didn't they? Smoke inhalation. A real tragedy, but at least he didn't suffer.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I -</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Do you want to know what really killed him?</span>

##### [MELANIE GASPS AND SOBS]

##### [ELIAS CONTINUES HIS MONOLOGUE, SPEAKING OVER AS MELANIE AS SHE CRIES]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Awful, isn't it? He *really* suffered. Not really your fault. Just bad luck. That doesn't comfort you, does it?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[crying]_ Take it back, take, take it back...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I'm afraid that's not really something I can do. I can promise not to make it worse though.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: What... no...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You know *how* your father really died. And I am sure that is unimaginably painful for you. But be aware: if I choose to, I can make you *see it.*</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: No... no, no...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: If you try to interfere with me again in *any* way, I will drive that image so deep into your psyche that even if you are right - even if you live - it will be there every time you close your eyes.</span>

##### [ELIAS FINISHES MONOLOGUING AND PAUSES; MELANIE CONTINUES TO CRY]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: _[normal voice]_ That's alright. Take your time. Tell you what, why don't you take the rest of the day off? I'm sure you have a lot to process.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Anyway, aside from all of that, I'd say your performance has been satisfactory.</span>

##### [CLICK]