---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG107 - #0100102 - Third Degree"
date:           2018-06-27 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Howard Ewing, Julia Montauk, Trevor Herbert, Max Mustermann, Inspector Sands, Kelly Dwyer, Vihan Prasad, The Archivist, Gerard Keay, Gertrude Robinson, Jay Rebecks, Melanie King, Martin Blackwood, Erika Mustermann, Police, The Usher Foundation, The Skin Book, Chicago O'Hare, West Pullman, Chicago, Illinois, UPMC, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, North America, Public Transit, Trains, Subways, Underground, Parents, Fathers, Sons, Funerals, Grief, Compulsion, Pyrophobia, Xenophobia, The Desolation, The Hunt, The Stranger]
statement_of:   [Howard Ewing]
recorder:       [The Archivist]
voiced:         [The Archivist, Julia Montauk, Max Mustermann, Trevor Herbert]
episode_title:  Third Degree
episode_number: '107'
case_number:    '0100102'
statement_date: 2010-02-01
recording_date: 
event_date:     
summary:         "Statement of Howard Ewing, regarding his interview with an unidentified member of British Transport Police. Original statement given February 1st 2010."
content_flags:   [seizure disorder, burning alive, heart attack, kidnapping, gun violence, axe violence, death of family member, death of parent, grief, coercion]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag107-thirddegree
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Frm4fQKxWhGUWrb6PaLqvZB1rCA8s-qpRKgXRlAQgag/edit?usp=sharing
official:        false
unofficial:      https://snarp.tumblr.com/
unofficial_name: snarp
wiki_url:        https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_107:_Third_Degree
---

##### [CLICK]

##### [BACKGROUND NOISE OF CROWDED AIRPORT]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I've, uh, just touched her in O'Hare International Airport, following up on the address I received from Xiaoling.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Apparently they were staying in West Pullman, Chicago. At least, they were when Gertrude requested the statements forwarded on to them. I'm going to get a hotel and follow up the address tomorrow.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I wouldn't normally bother recording here, but I think... I thought I was being followed.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(sigh)_ I might just be jumpy. I'll keep my eyes peeled. </span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The address didn't really pan out. The place deals in short-term rentals, and a dozen people must have gone through that apartment since Gertrude and Gerard stayed there.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The owner did remember her - "that old Brit and her son" - but he said anything they left behind was either sold or thrown out. They did leave a forwarding address, of sorts: anything that came was to be sent on to the Usher Foundation in Washington, DC. Who, I *assume,* would send it on to the Magnus Institute.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I asked him about circuses around at the time, and he said he didn't *remember* there being one, but a few nights while Gertrude was there, he *had* heard music - "like one of those little organs" - coming from West Pullman Park.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm planning to make the journey down to Washington in the hopes that Gertrude might have visited the Usher Foundation. According to our earlier emails, they don't have any record of it on file, but... _(sigh)_</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I *did* notice however the one of the Greyhound routes there goes through Pittsburgh. Now, according to the details Melanie retrieved a few months back, Pittsburgh is where Gerard Keay allegedly died. He was admitted to UPMC Presbyterian emergency department having suffered a massive seizure, and died less than a day later. I think I might have to pay a visit and ask around.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(sigh)_ Also, I'm *definitely* being followed.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: There's a police officer, I saw him at the airport as well, he stood out a bit because he wasn't immigration, or TSA or anything like that. He just, he just looked like a Chicago beat cop.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well, I saw him again today. And I'm pretty sure he was watching me.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(hoarsely, wheezing intermittently)_ The, the hospital was, the hospital was interesting. It's all very well being able to get people to answer your questions, but if they genuinely don't remember something, it's not always as useful as it seems.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I only found one person, Louis Brown, a nurse, who recalls working the night Gerard Keay was admitted. His "mother" was with him - and I almost feel like Gertrude took a perverse joy in the pretense - she explained his condition to the doctor, though could apparently offer no good reason he wasn't in full-time treatment, as his cancer was by this point... very advanced. _(sigh)_ They did everything they could to save him, but he had a second seizure shortly after he was admitted, and there was nothing they could do.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Unless he was somehow able to lie to me this nurse, Louis, honestly believes Gerard Keay is dead. _(sigh)_ Maybe I came all this way for nothing.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: There's one thing I very much *do* need to follow up on, though. Apparently Gertrude was *arrested* shortly afterwards. Louis only heard about this secondhand, but she was... apparently... caught breaking into the morgue... where Gerard's body was being kept...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I need some sleep.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I haven't seen a cop since I left Chicago, so maybe I was wrong.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm not feeling so good.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(hoarse, sluggish- and vague-sounding)_ I've been looking into Gertrude's arrest. I couldn't get through to Melanie, but Martin managed to find a few details online.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Gertrude was arrested for trespassing, but released shortly afterwards without being charged. I managed to track down the arresting officer, one Jay Rebecks, who said that she'd been found over the body of Gerard Keay reading from a large, strangely-shaped book.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: They'd been unable to determine if the mutilations on Gerard's body had been done by her, and in the end she somehow managed to talk them out of pressing charges.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Officer Rebecks didn't remember what she'd said, but he did recall that she'd never returned for the book. It was sitting in evidence for almost a year before, as far as Rebecks was aware, it simply vanished.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, I don't really know what to make of any of this. I'm, uh, I'm confused, I'm, I'm dizzy, I, I think I saw the police officer from Chicago again, in the station where I was talking to Rebecks.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm not... feeling well...</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(very hoarse)_ Elias has, um... </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, I, got a letter, well, an envelope... it's, it's a statement. There's, there's a note, "to tide you over," and, uh...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement of Howard Ewing, regarding his interview with an unidentified member of British Transport Police. Original statement given February 1st, 2010. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement begins.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The room is hot. It's small and there are no windows, and the table is sheet metal. It shouldn't be so hot in January, but I think maybe they've just got the heating turned up too high. When I rest my arm on the table too long, I can see the patches of sweat on the smooth surface as I lift them up again. I've asked for water so many times, and he always says it's coming, but it hasn't come yet.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): He just sits there. He's wearing the uniform of the British Transport Police. Three pips on his shoulder, but he won't show me his badge, he won't show me any ID.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Why are they doing this? I didn't do anything. The officers that brought me here were friendly, kind. It was only after they left and it got so hot and he started sitting across from me.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): He's smiling, asking me questions again and again.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "What were you doing earlier tonight?"</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): My job, I was doing my job. Cleaning Moorgate Station. Me and Kelly and Vihan were the night cleaners and that's what we were doing. We'd done the ticket office and the corridors and the entrances and we were getting started on the platforms. Why is that so hard for him to understand?</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): He laughs, and I wince as sweat drops into my eye.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "When did you first notice something was wrong?" </span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): We had just started work on the platform itself when we heard the tannoy come on. I don't know how. As far as I kne, it wasn't even powered. But there was that slight crackle and then: "this is a security announcement"</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): We all waited, confused, but what came out next sounded muffled, like it was coming up through five feet of water. I couldn't make out any of the words, and from the looks on their faces, neither could my colleagues. We strained to listen, but after a few seconds it was silent again.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): We all looked at each other and Vihan started to shrug when there came an incredible shrieking noise from the speakers. It felt like needles through my eardrums, and it was all I could do to stay upright. I saw Kelly fall to the floor clutching her head.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Then it stopped completely, and we all looked at each other again, catching our breath, trying to figure out who to report this to, and how.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "How did you become aware of the train?"</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The first thing I noticed was the smell. Even before the noise or the heat, there was a sticky greasy smell in the air, like burning chemicals and spoiled bacon. I tried to figure out where it was coming from, and I realized it got stronger the closer to the tunnel mouth I moved. By the time I reached the end of the platform I was almost gagging. </span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The others looked like they had mostly recovered from the screeching tannoy, and were noticing my odd movements and came over to investigate themselves.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I saw Vihan pull a face as he approached, and I pointed weakly to the opening of the tunnel. I carefully climbed down onto the tracks and looked out into the dark that led to Old Street. That's when I saw it.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "What did the carriage look like?"</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It was hard to tell through the flames. They were all over it, curling and writhing and crawling through the crevices in the wreckage. It wasn't intact, though. Parts of it were clearly crumpled and broken, and I saw shards of steel and glass embedded in the wall. It was lit by the dim red flames.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "What did it look like?" </span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): There were people still inside. I could see them, arms and heads reaching out of broken windows and split metal, blackened and rendered almost unrecognizable by the fire and the heat, but they still moved and twitched and cried out in pain and terror, scratching at the edge of their burning metal tomb. But everything was choked and surrounded by a thick acrid black smoke that stunned my eyes and lungs, so nothing seemed the same from one moment to the next.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "What did it look like?"</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It looked like hell.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "What did you hear?"</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Everything. The tunnel echoed and funneled the sounds until I could hear every agonized cry, every pop and crackle of the fire, the groaning of metal that matched the groaning of the wounded and the dying, it all hit me at once, like the tunnel was pushing the tidal wave of sound out just for me. The shape was perfect for a terrible screaming oven.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): From behind me I heard the shouts of Kelly and Rehan, though I don't know if it was because they saw it, too, or because they saw me fall to my knees in horror. </span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I could hear the tannoy again, now clearly speaking: "Will Inspector Sands please report, will Inspector Sands please report," over and over again.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): He smiles, and the tiny room gets hotter.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "Who is Inspector Sands?" </span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It's a code, one of the codes we use to alert staff to situations of disaster or fire. It usually means there's a fire. It's to keep people calm. It's meant to not cause any panic, keep them safe, even if there's an emergency.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): He laughs, and I wish I could go home.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "How many people were on the train?" </span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I don't know.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "What sort of train carriage was it?" </span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I don't know.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "Where did it come from?" </span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I don't know.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "Did you scream?"</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Yes.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): At least I think so. The back of my throat was dry and hot and painful, so my mouth must have been open. I think I was screaming.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "What were your colleagues doing?" </span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Vihan was gripping me by the shoulders, shaking me, yelling at me to wake up. But I was awake, I was wide awake, and I think in some ways he was talking to himself. Kelly was walking past me, trying to battle through the choking rancid smoke.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I hope she was planning to try and rescue those trapped in the wreckage, but maybe she was simply trying to join them.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I couldn't do anything to help either of them, and I knew that if I touched them I would burn them.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): He inhales as if in triumph.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "And where are they now?" </span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): They're dead.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): At least that's what I was told when the officers brought me here.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): They found no wreckage, nothing in the tunnels, no corpses wailing through an underground inferno, just the dead and burnt bodies of Kelly Dwyer and Vihan Prasad.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "What do you love most in the world?"</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The question sends a shock through my whole body. I know this is what he wants, all he truly cares about. I want to lie, to say that I love nothing and nobody, that I am alone in the world, and he'll have to look elsewhere. My tongue burns in my mouth as I try to keep it still.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "What do you love most in the world?"</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): My father. I love my father more than anything.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "Who am I?" </span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I don't answer, and he lets me leave.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): My father is dead a week later. </span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): A heart attack at the age of 63. Everyone is surprised and saddened, but not shocked. I try to tell myself it's a coincidence, that a heart attack is the most natural death in the world, but at the funeral, despite arranging it myself, despite selecting the burial plot and the headstone, I watch as they take my father off for cremation, and nobody can tell me why. They simply say how sorry they are for my loss, and hand me my father's ashes. I don't want his ashes.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I know he'll be back, the policeman with three bright pips on his shoulder.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): And he'll ask me what else I love. And I'll tell him.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Then he'll ask me who he is, and I won't say.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I don't want to cause any panic.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement ends. </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(sigh)_ I'm going to bed.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I feel... a lot better. </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'd love to rattle off a list of potential other reasons for this -  nice rational causes of recovery - but... I think we're past the point of transparent rationalizations. It looks like the recording of statements has now passed over from psychological compulsion into a more *physical* dependence.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't know whether this is some sort of classical addiction, or something a bit deeper. But either way, this is not the time for experimentation. I am on a deadline, and if I need to be reading statements to stay well enough, then I suppose that's what I shall do.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What irritates me most is that Elias was clearly aware of this, hence his sending me this, which seems to serve no other purpose but as a restorative. But, *as usual,* he chose to keep this very useful information to himself.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I think I've reached another dead end here. I've decided it's the last one. The Institute needs me there, not jetting around the world following a cold trail that may well not have led to anything useful the first time.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(sigh)_ I've a Greyhound booked down to Washington DC tomorrow. I'm going to stop in at the Usher Foundation, just in case they have anything that might help, and then I'm flying home.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm at a rest stop. The, uh, the buses, they're, they're giving us a comfort break, but there's, there's a woman here in the cafe, the diner, whatever. I've seen her car, I think she's following the bus. She's early 30s, I think, dressed nondescript: hard-wearing denim, old leather.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And she is... definitely watching me. She doesn't *look* like - she's coming over, I think -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Hello? Uhh, can I... help you?</span>

<span class="woman">WOMAN: Sure. Whatever you're reaching for, don't.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... what?</span>

<span class="woman">WOMAN: Keep your hands on the table, and we can all walk away from this.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You, you're English.</span>

<span class="woman">WOMAN: So are you. Ah-ah! Hands on the table.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Who are you?</span>

<span class="woman">WOMAN: Julia. Who are you?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh... uh, you don't know me?</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Should I?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, I-I guess! Just, uh, I mean everyone normally seems to.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Hm. Good for you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: N-not really.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: So, who are you?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, uh, uh, Jonathan! - uh, John. Sims. Uh, I'm the Head Archivist for the Magnus Institute. London.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Oh, you don't say. So what brings you down to the I-70. Pennsylvania.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh, look, I mean... you're the one following *me.*</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: We were told you were asking some interesting questions around a few places back in Pittsburgh. And you seem to have attracted the attention of something we've been watching for a while.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...uh... my, my bus is leaving...</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Let it. You're riding with me.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't think so.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Then try to run.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Go on.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So... kidnapped. *Again.*</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Think of it like... an escort. Personal bodyguard. </span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: You're heading to DC, right? Come on, we can chat in the car. I'm sure you've got a *ton* of librarian stories. The miles will just *fly* by.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Do I have any choice?</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: If you did you'd only make a mistake.</span>

##### [ARCHIVIST SIGHS]

<span class="julia">JULIA: Come on.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [SOUNDS OF INSIDE OF MOVING CAR]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...are you alright? You seem, uh...</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Sure. Just keeping an eye out. Waiting, you know.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: ...</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: So you're from the Magnus Institute?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh, yes. You, you know the Institute...?</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Oh, yeah. Checked myself in there a while back. Ended up spilling my guts to this old woman about my dad. Just, letting it all out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, uh, that would be Gertrude. My, my predecessor.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Didn't catch her name.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Weirdest thing, really. Didn't mean to spill half of it, but... really helped me put the pieces together. You know?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh, I'm starting to.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Hm. </span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: You still haven't told me what you're doing this side of the pond. Or why you're asking around about Gerard Keay.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh _(nervous laugh)_... would you... believe me if I said I was trying to save the world?</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Probably not.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What about you? </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What brings the daughter of Robert Montauk all the way out here? And why, exactly are you -</span>

##### [SIRENS AS POLICE CAR APPROACHES]

##### [JULIA PULLS OVER TO THE SIDE OF THE ROAD]

<span class="julia">JULIA: _(quietly)_ Hunting.</span>

##### [FOOTSTEPS AS POLICE OFFICER APPROACHES]

##### [TAP ON WINDOW; JULIA ROLLS IT DOWN]

<span class="police-officer">POLICE OFFICER: License and registration.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Can I see some ID, please?</span>

<span class="police-officer">POLICE OFFICER: Of course... you British?</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: I have my green card, Officer... Mustermann.</span>

<span class="mustermann">MUSTERMANN: And your friend? </span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Visiting from home! </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Julia...</span>

<span class="mustermann">MUSTERMANN: Does he have his passport on him?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: *Julia.*</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: I *assume* so. Can't say I asked him - *John.*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: J-J-Julia, I-I don't, I don't think - ah...</span>

<span class="mustermann">MUSTERMANN: Step out of the car, please, sir.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Now, hang on a second.</span>

<span class="mustermann">MUSTERMANN: Step out. Of the car.</span>

##### [TWO METALLIC CLUNKING SOUNDS]

<span class="mustermann">MUSTERMANN: Pop the trunk, ma'am.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: I mean, there's nothing *in* there.</span>

<span class="mustermann">MUSTERMANN: I'm not gonna ask you again.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: ...</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Fine.</span>

<span class="mustermann">MUSTERMANN: Don't move. Either one of you.</span>

##### [FOOTSTEPS]

##### [SOUND OF TRUNK BEING OPENED]

<span class="mustermann">MUSTERMANN: HOLY SH -</span>

##### [A GUNSHOT]

##### [JULIA LAUGHS AS MUSTERMANN SWEARS AND SHOUTS]

##### [ANOTHER GUNSHOT]

##### [GRUNTING]

##### [FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="man">MAN: Oh, bloody hell, Jule. You said he'd stop after a couple of miles. Been near on an hour. </span>

<span class="man">MAN: Ohhh, look at my neck, it don't feel right...</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Oh, you knew it might take a while.</span>

<span class="man">MAN: This him, then?</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: It is. John, Trevor.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh - T-Trevor Herbert, the, the Vampire Killer!</span>

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: Julia...</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: He works for the Magnus Institute. He's read *all* about us.</span>

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: Oh. Well, isn't that something.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: My thoughts exactly.</span>

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: Time for that later. You two help me now, this one needs its head off.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: You didn't kill it?!</span>

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: We don't know what it is yet, do we?</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Ugh!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What, the, the, the police officer? I think I have an idea.</span>

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: Oh-ho! Do you now. Then you get the axe. It's in the boot.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I-I, I don't...</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: *Come on.*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...right. Uh...</span>

##### [CLICK]