---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG100 - #VARIOUS - I Guess You Had To Be There"
date:           2018-04-04 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Lynne Hammond, Conspiracy Theorist, Robin Lennox, Brian Finlinson, Martin Blackwood, Timothy Stoker, Basira Hussain, Melanie King, Peter Lukas, John Smith, Ghosts, Burns, Conspiracy Theories, Kidnapping, Breaking and Entering, Scepticism, Ruins, Mazes, Getting Lost, Cobwebs, Spiders, Dogs, Money, Social Awkwardness, Obliviousness, Fearlessness, Incoherency, Isolophobia, Pyrophobia, Maniaphobia, Arachnophobia, Scopophobia, The Lonely, The Desolation, The Spiral, The Web, The Eye]
statement_of:   [Lynne Hammond, John Smith, Robin Lennox, Brian Finlinson]
statement_to:   [Martin Blackwood, Timothy Stoker, Basira Hussain, Melanie King]
recorder:       [Direct]
voiced:         [Martin Blackwood, Lynne Hammond, Timothy Stoker, Conspiracy Theorist, Basira Hussain, Robin Lennox, Melanie King, Brian Finlinson, Peter Lukas]
episode_title:  I Guess You Had To Be There
episode_number: '100'
case_number:    'VARIOUS'
statement_date: [2017-05-02, 2017-05-26]
recording_date: [2017-05-02, 2017-05-26]
event_date:     
summary:        "Assorted live statements. No further details available."
content_flags:  [Spiders, Mental instability, Isolation, Unreality, Helplessness]
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag100-iguessyouhadtobethere
pdf:            https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JWysCq7XvkpVrNwmEuBFwy_ExF-czIgj/view?usp=drivesdk
accessible_pdf: https://drive.google.com/file/d/13zLcQmK-HkyvTKbK2uAFQIfIlhIee1ak/view?usp=drivesdk
official:       true
wiki_url:       https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_100:_I_Guess_You_Had_To_Be_There
---

##### [CLICK]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Sorry again that the Archivist isn't actually in today, um... but I should be... absolutely fine to take your statement if it, um, if that's okay with you?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Er... yeah.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: O-kay.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Um. Are you, are you comfortable?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Yeah.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Right. Right.</span>

##### [THROAT CLEARING]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Statement of Lynne Hammond, er, recorded 2nd of May 2017, regarding...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Uh, what, what's this one about?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: I saw a ghost.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: O-kay.. Regarding a... a ghost. Statement begins.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: ...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Sorry. What happens now?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, er... _[nervous chuckle]_ Well, I mean, you, you tell us what happened.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Well, yeah, I did. I saw **a ghost**.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Er, no, I mean, I mean, you, sort of, tell the story of - </span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Yeah. The story is: I saw a ghost.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Okay. But what, what was it like? How did it make you, er, feel?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Erm... it was... scary and it made me feel... scared.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: I'm sorry. Am I doing this wrong?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Ah... no, no, no, it's okay. Erm... Let's, let's try this again. Try this again...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: When did you first see this ghost?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Oh... god. Erm... about a year ago.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Anything more specific than that?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Er, I mean it's been a while. I can't really remember - </span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Er... okay, okay. Er, where? Where, where did you see the ghost?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Uh, my old flat.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Okay, okay, great. Which ... where's that?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Clapton.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Clapton. Clapton, okay. And, erm, what, what were you doing when you saw the, when you saw the ghost?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Well, I was asleep.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You -</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Well, I mean -</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...saw a ghost when you were asleep?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: No, no, obviously I woke up.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Right, right.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: And... ghost.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Right. Erm...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Well, first it was, like... a burning smell.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh! Okay, okay. So... Did this happen a lot?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Yeah, yeah. A few nights.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Okay, right, so, like you're, you'd wake up in the night, and you'd smell burning, and... what did you do?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Well... I first checked that my house wasn't on fire.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah... And then?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Go back to sleep.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And when it happened again, you would...?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Well, after a few times I realised, my house *wasn't* on fire, so I'd just go straight back to sleep.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: O-kay.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What, what happened the first time you saw the ghost?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: I mean... _[sigh]_ she was *there...*</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, it's a 'she'. Okay, okay. So describe the ghost to me. It's, it's a woman? A girl? A...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Yeah, yeah. A young woman.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And, and what was *she* doing?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: I mean, she was on fire.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: O-kay.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Erm, so, so she's on fire. So what did you do? You've, you, you, you're waking up in the night, and you're seeing a... a woman is on fire in your flat, so you...?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: I mean... what can you do? She wouldn't be there for long.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Okay. Er... so, you didn't call the police or...?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: _[Snorts]_ Well, no. I mean, it sounds a bit crazy, doesn't it?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Okay, so.... So what is it that, sort of, made you... erm... _[sighs]_</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Why are you here?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: My friend told me that, y'know, this is where you report stuff like that, so...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: O-kay.</span>

##### [CLICK]

------

##### [CLICK]

##### [MOUTH SOUNDS WHILE SETTING UP RECORDER]

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Sounding tired]_ Right, so... tape's on.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Who are you?</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Er... I'm, um, I'm 'Smith'.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Just 'Smith'?</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Um, 'John'... 'John Smith'. _[Elongates vowels]_ 'John Smith'.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Your name's 'John Smith'?</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': 'John Smith'.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Very softly]_ Right, okay, good.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: And... _[heavy sigh]_ why are you here, 'Smith'?</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Er... well, um, I'm, I'm here coz, er... coz I have something to report. I'm, um, I'm worried.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Shouldn't you be going to the police potentially?</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Ah, I don't think they can help with *this.* Um...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Right. And so... what, what brings you here? What do you need help with?</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Well, I've, um, I've... er, I've *seen* some things.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Right.</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': I think, er, I've, I've heard, er, er, your, your, er, your *field...* Found a few web pages, er... long time ago.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: And can we talk about why it is *specifically* that you're here, Mr. Smith.</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Sure, sure.</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Um, so, so you know Aldwych Tube station?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I do.</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Um, it's not, it's not a Tube station any more, obviously, it's abandoned now. Um, but I was, I was there with, er, an, an *associate,* er, we'll call him... 'Jeremy'...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Right.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Good.</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': And, er... we, we broke into the, the Tube station- </span>

##### [TIM SIGHS]

<span class="smith">'SMITH': \- 'coz we wanted to, have a, have a look around, 'coz y'know- </span>

<span class="tim">TIM: What drove you to break into a Tube station, Mr. Smith?</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Well... It's... It's part of, part of London's history, y'know. It's public transport, it's interesting.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: And you wanted to see the interesting things?</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Yeah. I mean, y'know, there's still trains running though at the platform level but there's no... there's no, the station isn't running any more, it's been abandoned. So much of the things there are all in original condition. Like they've still got the original adverts up and things like that.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Right... okay.</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': From when they shut it down. 'coz they've never been removed.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: But **why** specifically there Mr. 'Smith'?</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Oh, well, I mean, we had, we had some ideas about what, what might be down there. Y'know, it's not, not just the, not just the, y'know, the public transport stuff and the adverts. We thought... might be something a little bit, a little bit more... I dunno, something, something worth investigating.</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Um. We were down there, in the tunnels, and... and then the torches went out. And I think... _[sniffs]_ I think they took him.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: "They"?</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Yeah, them. *Them.*</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Okay. And who are *they?*</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Well, I mean, you, you must know? I mean, like, this is the Magnus Institute. I mean, like, you **know** this stuff, right? You know, the people who are down in the tunnels, y'know...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: **What** people are down in the tunnels, Mr. 'Smith'?</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': The Government.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Sighs]_ The Government?</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Yeah, yeah, the Government.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Wonderful.</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': They're down... they've got, they've got a holding facility down there. It's a secret holding facility.</span>

##### [CLICK]

------

##### [CLICK]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Right. Statement of... Robin Lennox?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Well... my friends call me Rob, well, some of, some of my friends call me Rob. Er... a lot of my friends, I guess some of them call me Robin. You can call me... er, if it makes it easier for you, then, yeah, that's- </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: May 20th 2017. About a stone circle, I think. That's what you said?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Erm, so it started, it started on, er, a day, when me and, er, me and Jackie, we were walking - Jackie's my dog.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Okay</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: We were, we were walking down the South Downs, which is what we normally do, er, before we go visit my mother for a, for a roast. Um. We were walking down and, er- </span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Are you much of a dog person?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: What day was it?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Um, so, this... when would this have been, now? Now, this was about, about two weeks ago, so what would, would, where are we now? Um, that would put it at, maybe, maybe the 6th, I think.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Okay.</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Perhaps... So, so, me and Jackie were walking down, down our usual trail, down the South Downs, and, er, in Lewes, er, which, er, like I said, is where my mother lives. Um, so were walking, walking along just - er, Jackie just loves to run off the lash and just run, scour around the fields and- </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Okay. So you were walking, a couple of weeks ago- </span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Er, that's right, yes.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: \- it was about noon -</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: In the South Downs, yes.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: \- yes, in the South Downs.</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: And... off in the distance, something just caught my, something just caught my eye, and I, I have pretty good eyesight. I, er, I had them... had, had an eye test a few days ago - </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yes.</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Y'know, one of those free ones that you get, you go along just for the sake of it - </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: **What**... What did you see?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Okay, right, so, I, I thought to myself that, that stone circle, *that* wasn't there before. At least, I thought it was a cir- a stone circle. So, so, me and Jackie went off to investigate - Jackie's quite a curious dog. Um, it's quite a normal thing for Jack, er, Jack Russell terriers to be curious animals - </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So you went to investigate that?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Right, yes. So, so, we, we were, we were walking towards this, er, this, what I thought was a stone circle. So, I was, sort of, walking towards it, and I, I really noticed it got, it got quite a lot chillier. So it was quite a sunny day - </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Okay.</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: \- erm, I hadn't, I hadn't taken a jacket. Y'know when you sort of look out the window and you're like 'Today's a jacket day' - </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _[Desperately trying to get him on track]_ So you thought... you saw this stone circle?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Oh yes, yeah.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Started walking towards it?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: That's right.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: And then..?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Okay, so, so, yeah, it's like I said, it was definitely, definitely a bit, definitely a bit chillier. Um, I don't think there was any wind or anything that day, but it, yeah, just sort of, as I was walking towards it, felt, felt the chill. And I felt Jackie, sort of, start to walk closer to me. She started to run off a lot less, as if she sort of - I don't know, maybe I just sort of noticed th- y'know when you sort of get a feeling for what mood a dog's in, um, when you sort of spend a lot of time around them- </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: **So**, what about this stone circle?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Oh, the stone circle. So, so, I got closer, and I realised that, although I hadn't seen, I hadn't seen the stone circle before, but the, the, sort of texture of the rocks and, maybe a bit of, er, I dunno, they looked quite old. They, they definitely looked like they *had* been there for a long time, but that they, but I recall them definitely not being there, 'cause, 'cause, I've taken that route maybe five or six or... _[mumbles]_ a few times now. When was the first time I took that route? I think that was with - </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So you don't remember seeing this before, but the rocks looked old?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Let me start again.</span>

##### [CLICK]

------

##### [CLICK]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Alright then. Statement of... Brian... er... 'Fentinson'?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: BRIAN *: Oh, um, it's, it's, it's... it's Fin- Finlinson.</span>

##### * (Transcriber's Note: Brian is a lot more 'angsty' and stammers more than can be realistically captured in this transcript.)

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Ah, right, sorry. That's the... the handwriting here.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: So. Statement regarding...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Sp-Spiders. B-B-But, I mean, lot, a lot of spiders!</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Ah. Good. A spider one.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: What?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Date: May 26th. And, er, go on... ah, let's, let's get this over with.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: _[Confused]_ Is... Look, is everything okay?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Sighs]_ Yes. Yes, it's, it's fine. Sorry, I just, I just don't hold out a lot of hope for... coherence.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: What?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Our Archivist is on leave.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: I don't really. Look. I don't really like staying in one place too long.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Fine. Statement begins.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Oh, um, I...</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: That means get started.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Oh, um, so... The spiders, they're just, they're *all over* my flat. Hundreds of spiders, and it's freaky, like they just don't act like *spiders.* And they're leaving, like, web all over, all over my stuff, like on the sofa, and on like, on like, the microwave. Like, that's **weird**, right? It's not how spiders normally are.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Interjecting]_ So... let's, let's, let's, er, take this from a bit earlier. When did this start? When was the first "weird" spider?</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: A couple months? Nah, maybe a bit longer. Like, it, it started gradually, I guess. Like, y'know, I don't like spiders, and sometimes, sure, there's one in the bathroom, a little web or something, but that's normal. And I just, y'know, asked a friend to deal with it or something. And, and then... Suddenly there were more spiders! Like the corner of every room. And it's freaky 'cause there's, like, different *types* of spider. And different...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: MELANIE *: Right.</span>

##### * (Transcriber's Note: Throughout Brian's statement, Melanie repeatedly makes general noises of agreement or acknowledgement.)

<span class="brian">BRIAN: And they don't normally, like, gather in groups of different species. It's different species of spider, isn't it?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Stuttering somewhat]_ I-I-I-I'm not familiar...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: I feel like they're watching me!</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: What do you mean? Are they *looking...* at you?</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: They, they, they sort of *move* when I *move*. And, like, when I, when I go into a different room, I feel like there's a, there's a flow of spiders to the same room, or- But they don't let me touch them, or, or, if I try and whack 'em with a newspaper, they don't let me get near!</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Right.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: And then... and the weirdest thing was when I asked an exterminator to come and look at the problem. They all disappeared! It's like the first time I'd been, there'd been no spiders in weeks. And then suddenly, as soon as he leaves, they all come *back!* It's like suddenly they're there again!</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Trying to interrupt]_ Was... was... was that maybe the first time there had been another... person... looking at, at your flat?</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Um. Well, I mean, I guess so? But no, 'cause like- </span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Trying to pick this apart...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: \- I haven't, haven't invited someone to come over 'cause there's spiders and webs everywhere. But like - but there's - I mean - </span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: And the webbing...?</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: \- Just think it's the other day, they webbed, they webbed my bedroom door shut. I mean, that's *weird,* right? Like, enough spiders leave enough web to seal the door. And they *trapped* me in there with the, all those spiders. That's not *normal,* right?! That's freaky! That's supernatural!</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: But -</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: That's what you guys do, isn't it?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: It does sound unusual...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Like, the supernatural, right?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Um... I mean, we're, we're an investigative... unit, but we're...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: I just wanted some help! Like, I heard you guys like... I thought if you know about the supernatural, maybe you could help me deal with this!</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I... *really* wish that was the case.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: _[Distressed]_ Oh god!</span>

##### [CLICK]

------

##### [CLICK]

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Yeah, and then... she... er, reached out to me.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, okay. Okay, right, so she reached out, um, and then... what, what happened? She reached out to you, so what did you do?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Er... Well, not a lot.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Right.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Um, and, and then she just... disappeared like normal?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: I mean... she burned me a bit.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh! Oh wow! Okay, er, like, are you okay? Did you- </span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Oh.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Was there, was there a lot of damage? Are you - Is there...?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: No, no, no. It's... er, just, just a few hairs. My right arm. I mean they, they've grown back.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Like, like a few hairs? So then...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And then she disappeared and you...?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: I went back to sleep.</span>

##### [MARTIN GATHERS HIMSELF WITH A LONG INTAKE OF BREATH

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Right. Erm...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And, well, then what happened? So, y'know, y'know, you've been burned by this, mys-mysterious ghost, so what did you do?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: I mean, I moved out.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And nothing... nothing since then?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Well, no. I've, I've moved.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Right.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Erm, I'm - I don't suppose you've looked into the, the history of the building, or anything?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Why?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: O-kay. Erm... Statement ends. I guess. Er... okay, yeah, great, um.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Cool.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Thanks so much for coming. Really appreciate it.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Erm, yeah, if you... yeah, if you head out, um, by the way that you came in, there's a woman at the front desk, she'll take your details down...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Great.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...and then we might, y'know, might be in contact about it in the future if we, if we do any follow up, and need, need to talk to you about any specifics again, but... that probably won't...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Oh. You, you got everything then, yeah? That's...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Erm... Yeah. Yeah. Y'know what, yeah. I think, I think that's basically it, y'know. Th-Thanks so much for coming in, though. We do appreciate it.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Cool.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: I know. Cool.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: ...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Er...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: S-Sorry, is there, there is something else that, um...?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: No, I just, just thought that maybe you would...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Er...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: I mean, do I get... a... piece of paper or something?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: To...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No, no, it's fine. It's, it's, it's fine.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: ...say that I've done it?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: We, we, we keep an internal record.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: I mean, do I... Is there, like... an invoice or something? I...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _[Confused]_ In...? An... invoice?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: For...?</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: I mean, just, just, my friend Gav said that, y'know, you guys... you need stories, and you need people to come forward, so...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah, yeah...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: And you... kind of...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: You pay up people for their ghost stories, so...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh! Er, ah... _[Nervous chuckle]_ I, I think there might be a bit of a, er, er, mis-miscommunication here- </span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Oh!</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Oh, right, okay.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah. Yeah... We don't actually, um... er, we don't pay for, pay for statements.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Right.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: This is, this is more, a, er, documenting process than... er, we don't use these for, um, for stuff outside of - </span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Okay.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: \- r-r-records.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Ahh. I'm really sorry. Er...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Oh. I mean, I mean, that's why I - </span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Er, no, y'know, okay, but that's fine.</span>

##### [MOMENTS OF EMBARRASSED MUMBLINGS]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Er...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Um...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Y'know what... Sorry. Um. Let's see what I've got...</span>

##### [MOURNFUL SOUNDS OF MARTIN'S LOOSE CHANGE]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I mean, I've got... I mean... get a coffee, I...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Y'know what? You're, you're alright.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No, no, please, please? I...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Oh, alright.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Y'know, er...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Thanks, thanks.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...like, like a macchiato, or...</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Mm.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I mean, maybe not that much.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: Okay, so, um... just the way out...</span>

##### [TRANSFER OF COINS]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah.</span>

<span class="lynne">LYNNE: ...the way I came in?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah, please. If that's... yeah.</span>

##### [DOOR OPENS &amp; CLOSES]

##### [MARTIN SIGHS WEARILY]

##### [CLICK]

------

##### [CLICK]

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Wearily]_ Mr. Smith...</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': _[Irate]_ Look, Jeremy, is somewhere, under London, right now, having... **bioweapons** tested on him! Yeah! Like, and I know that, 100% certain, coz it's a **fact**!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I think you might possibly be looking for a different agency...</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Well, I, I think so! I came here, because I have uncovered, like, a **massive** government conspiracy, yeah. And what are you doing? You're like... you're what? Just frowning at me sceptically.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: It's possible you should take that to someone else, Mr. Smith.</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Well! Well probably! Probably I should do that!</span>

<span class="smith">'SMITH': Coz that's a fat lot of use you are! Mendacists! You're rubbish!</span>

##### [TIM SIGHS HEAVILY, OBSCURING MR. SMITH'S PARTING WORDS]

<span class="tim">TIM: Statement ends.</span>

##### [CLICK]

------

##### [CLICK]

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Yeah, people have always said to me that Jack Russells can be difficult dogs, but I've always found that, that, as long as you, sort of, treat them right, and, you know, give them lots of treats, and it's, it's really quite - </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _[Getting exasperated]_ **So** you were in the spiral, and you heard an old man crying?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: As I was meandering around, and you know when you hear, you, you hear someone crying, but you, you, but you definitely sort of say that's, that's... that's, there's an *age* in that voice. Like it sounded... like, if you, have you heard many old men crying?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _[Sharply interjects]_ So you were following...?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Yes, that's right. So, you know how, sort of, at places like Hampton Court, where they've got those little hedge mazes, and rather than, sort of, bounding straight into the middle of them, where you can just sort of walk over all the hedges, you have to, you have to, sort of, follow it through, er, I've, it sort of put in me in mind of that. As, er, as I sort of imagine myself in... exploring that maze - </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So you followed the maze?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: So I followed the, so I, yeah, so I followed the spiral, the spiral round and, er, I could definitely hear this sort of old man crying. And it d-d- It was definitely an *old* man, 'cause it really reminded me of, er, this old chap I met once on a train, er, going, going to Liverpool. Er, he was, he was - </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Mmmm, so... So what happened?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: So, so... as I was going round, and, and hearing this old man, erm, I suddenly, suddenly realised that I was going to be late for... I was going to be late for my mum's dinner that she had planned, er - </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: You... But... didn't you say it was, it was about noon?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Well, that was the funny thing. So, you see, I, I looked at my watch, and I realised that six hours had gone by.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Six... Six hours?!</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Yes, that's right. So, er, at that point, I, I left.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: ...</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: I'm sorry?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Yes, so I would, I would have been late for dinner, so...</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So you left?</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: So I got out of the spiral, and went to dinner.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: ...</span>

##### [BAFFLED VOCALISATIONS]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Statement ends... I suppose.</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Is, is, is that all you need from me?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _[Emphatically]_ Yep.</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Are you sure?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yep!</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: You don't, you don't need anything - </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Absolutely!</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: You want any more details - </span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Nope! Thank you Mr. Lennox.</span>

<span class="robin">ROBIN: Okay.</span>

##### [CLICK]

------

##### [CLICK]

<span class="brian">BRIAN: _[Highly anguished]_ ...and I just, I dunno what to do anymore! I think they were following me. I think they followed me here! I saw a spider in the basement outside. And, and the webbing, it just...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: it had this webbing, the sticky kind... and I just... I don't know how I can keep... I just need... This is the first time I've been in a room where I haven't seen a spider - </span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: MELANIE (BACKGROUND) *: I...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Please, just...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: There's, there's tea there.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Okay. Right. Yes.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Okay, breathe.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Yeah... well...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Drink, drink the tea.</span>

##### * (Transcriber's Note: Melanie and Brian's speech occur somewhat concurrently, as she tries to get him to calm down.)

<span class="brian">BRIAN: \- and maybe this is safe - </span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Laughingly strangled]_ No-o-o-o-o. No.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: \- or maybe they're outside. I just don't know!</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: It's really...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: I don't know how else-</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: It's really not safe.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: _[Wheezing distressedly]_ - carry on!</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I'll, I'll get you some biscuits. I'll get you, I'll get you, I'll get you... something... Just breathe!</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Breathe for me...</span>

##### [BRIAN TAKES SOME CALMING DEEP BREATHS]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Okay, yes.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Good. Good.</span>

##### [DOOR OPENS &amp; CLOSES AS BRIAN CONTINUES TO BREATHE DEEPLY]

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Sorry. I know I shouldn't...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: I guess that's... that's everything. I, I just don't...</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Oh.</span>

##### [CHAIR SCRAPING ON FLOOR]

<span class="brian">BRIAN: _[Calling out]_ H-Hello?</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Sorry. Did I...?</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: I don't, don't know...</span>

##### [MORE CHAIR SCRAPING]

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Should I just... go?</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Hello?</span>

##### [VERY SHARP SQUEAL OF DISTORTION]

<span class="peter">PETER: - do not want to be a character in a podcast. This -</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: _[Taken aback]_ Woah.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: This is not something I agreed to!</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Oh, er... no, I... Hi.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: People are listening to me talk *right* now! On their phones and computers and - and *devices* -</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: I don't, um... I'm, I'm sorry. I was just, um... but everyone... just went.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Sorry. B-Brian. B-Brian Finlinson.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: CD players, maybe.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: No... I was just, um... making a statement, or, or whatever. Um...</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I do not appreciate this, I never wanted to be in a podcast - did YOU agree to this?</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: _[Thoroughly confused]_ I don't... What?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I simply cannot handle this situation. I am sending you to an alternate dimension, I hope that's all right -</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: No.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: I'm, I'm sorry.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: Listen, no one wants to be a character in a podcast. It's better this way.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: _[Softly]_ What?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: It's better this way, Brian.</span>

##### [VERY SHARP SQUEAL OF DISTORTION]

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Yeah... Thanks... Uh... I - Oh.</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: Hello?</span>

<span class="brian">BRIAN: H-Hello?</span>

##### [CLICK]