---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG120.2 - Season 4 Trailer"
date:            2018-12-31 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      [trailer, episode]
trailer:         true
tags:            [Trailers, Martin Blackwood, The Archivist, Peter Lukas, Melanie King, Basira Hussain]
statement_of:    []
recorder:        []
voiced:          [Martin Blackwood]
episode_title:   'Season 4 Trailer'
episode_number:  '120.2'
case_number:     
statement_date:  
recording_date:  
event_date:      
summary:         "The Magnus Archives will return January 10th 2019."
content_flags:   []
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/themagnusarchives-season4teaser
pdf:             https://drive.google.com/open?id=1fctoZbHsJdCN3Kd-XzFKvg83Wycl9hxp
accessible_pdf:  
google_doc:      https://drive.google.com/open?id=1RfpMzGCdoW1mrv30jWpCf3w63QV2N5yhysO5E70MC5o
official:        false
unofficial:      https://drive.google.com/open?id=1RfpMzGCdoW1mrv30jWpCf3w63QV2N5yhysO5E70MC5o
unofficial_name: tmatranscripts.tumblr.com
wiki_url:        
---

##### [INT. HOSPITAL, JON'S ROOM]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [A clock ticks steadily in the background.]

##### [The door opens, and we get a brief few seconds of hallway noise before it is closed again.]

##### [We hear a few breaths, and a footstep or to as whoever entered makes their way to the bed.]

#### MARTIN

Hi, Jon. _(shaky breath)_

_(pause)_

Uh-hh.. How are you? _(short pause) (short laugh)_ Yeah. Yeah, same here. It's- _(inhale)_ It's bad all over, _(sigh)_ y'know? _[Hold I'm-]_ getting by, I suppose. Um.. Basira's keeping things, taking over, and Melanie is-- _(sigh)_ Well, well,

##### [The "well" turns into a rueful laugh.]

#### MARTIN

Melanie is Melanie. _(laugh)_ Anyway, yeah, just- thought I'd stop by. Check in and uh, y'know. See how you're, um--

_(pause) (sigh) (pause)_

We really need you, Jon. Everything's- It's bad. I- I don't know how much longer we can do this. We- *I* need you. And I- I know that you're not-- I know there's no way to-- 

_(soft, shaky breath)_ But we need you, Jon. Jon, please, just-- _(wet)_ *Please.* _(trying not to cry)_ If- If there's anything left in you that can still see us, or, or some power that you've still got, or, or, or, something, *anything,* please!

_(pause, more put together)_ Please. _(inhale, definitely about to cry)_ I- I can't-

##### [His phone buzzes three times-- it's on vibrate-- he gasps softly in surprise. We hear him get up from what, presumably, is a chair, and answer the phone. When he speaks, he's much more business-like, gives no sign that he was seconds away from crying not even a minute before.]

#### MARTIN (PHONE)

Yeah. Yeah, I know.

_(waits for response)_

I'm- I'm actually with him now.

##### [He sniffs as he says this, the way you might try to get rid of a cold.]

#### MARTIN (PHONE) (PHONE)

You were right.

##### [He moves about.]

#### MARTIN (PHONE)

_(waits) (shaky breath)_ I --

_(big sigh)_

Will they be **safe**?

_(waits)_

Okay. _(more confident)_ Okay. I'll do it.

_(response)_

Yeah. Sure thing.

##### [Small sigh from Martin.]

#### MARTIN

_(to Jon)_ I'm sorry. Goodbye, Jon.

##### [Slight pause.]

##### [The door opens. We again hear the bustle of the hallway before it closes. The bustle is still audible in the background as the clock ticks on. Then-]

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

