---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG092 - #0172804-B - Nothing Beside Remains"
date:           2018-02-07 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Barnabas Bennett, Mordechai Lukas, Jonah Magnus, Elias Bouchard, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Basira Hussain, The Archivist, Melanie King, Timothy Stoker, Martin Blackwood, Rosie, Chief Inspector Kaugery, Gertrude Robinson, Jurgen Leitner, Sasha James, NotSasha, Lukas Family, Police, Alexandria, Egypt, Compulsion, Contracts, Debts, Manipulation, Blackmail, Consent, Identity, Phones, Books, Travel, Scopophobia, Isolophobia, Xenophobia, The Eye, The Lonely, The Stranger, The Hunt]
statement_of:   [Barnabas Bennett]
recorder:       [Elias Bouchard]
voiced:         [Elias Bouchard, 999 Operator, Police Officer, Chief Inspector Kaugery, Martin Blackwood, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Basira Hussain, The Archivist, Timothy Stoker, Melanie King, Rosie]
episode_title:  Nothing Beside Remains
episode_number: '092'
case_number:    '0172804-B'
statement_date: 2017-04-28
recording_date: 2017-04-28
event_date:     2017-04-28
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag92-nothingbesideremains
pdf:            https://drive.google.com/file/d/10iptQ5GNA0kfZHpTsnSB5xM2J4k3ZGQg/view?usp=drivesdk
accessible_pdf: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XAwARxJ9HCZk0bHF4Wi6TpIOx5mId__U/view?usp=drivesdk
official:       true
wiki_url:       https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_92:_Nothing_Beside_Remains
---

##### [CLICK]

##### [SOUND OF TELEPHONE BEING HANDLED - THREE KEYPRESSES, THEN IT RINGS]

<span class="operator">OPERATOR: 999, what's your emergency?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Police, please.</span>

<span class="officer">OFFICER: Hello.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Yes, I'm calling to report a crime in progress.</span>

<span class="officer">OFFICER: Sir, are you in any immediate personal danger?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Ah, y-yes, not immediately, but I will be shortly.</span>

<span class="officer">OFFICER: Sir, where are you calling from? I need - </span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Could I speak to your Chief Inspector, please? Tell her Elias Bouchard is calling. Of the Magnus Institute.</span>

<span class="officer">OFFICER: Oh, er... Sure.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Thank you.</span>

##### [SOUND OF PEN ON PAPER WHILST WAITING]

<span class="chief">CHIEF: Chief Inspector Kaugery.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Ah, yes, er, good afternoon. Er, sorry to bother you. I believe you're looking for Detective Alice Tonner?</span>

<span class="chief">CHIEF: Do you know where she is?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I do, yes. Er, she should be here in about fifteen minutes.</span>

<span class="chief">CHIEF: I'll send some officers over immediately </span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: That would be wonderful. Much appreciated.</span>

##### [PUTS PHONE DOWN]

##### [FINISHES WRITING, COVERS PEN AND PLACES IT DOWN]

##### [STEADYING BREATH]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Statement of Barnabas Bennett, as given in a short letter to Jonah Magnus. April 9th, 1824.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): My dear Jonah,</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): You must help me. If anyone is still here, it is you. I know your work brings you into contact with all sorts of fantastical terrors, so perhaps you might have it within your power to save me from this place. And it was you who warned me not to cross Mordechai Lukas. Advice that I have, I'm afraid, disregarded.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): It was a small enough thing, as I believed. A trifling debt I fell behind on. And when he met me in that garden, quiet as it always is with him, he demanded repayment. Well, I took it poorly, and laughed at his insistence. "Bring it before the courts," I told him. After all, what judge would find in his favour over mine? He simply regarded me silently for many minutes, staring with such a cast to his face that I could feel my resolution beginning to falter. "You shall pay me," he said at last, "in kind." Then he walked away.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): Let me tell you, Jonah, I believed myself profoundly lucky that day as my hansom deposited me on the steps of my townhouse, a mood only slightly shaken by the impression that, as the cab pulled away, it seemed to have no driver that I could discern.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): I am lucky, Jonah, but only insofar as that I never married. Never fathered children. Never let anyone get closer than my brother. The pangs of loneliness I feel are no more acute than my general longing for the company of my fellow man. I have no-one whose absence truly pains me.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): And yet here, in this empty world, I cannot but spend these nights, these dreadful, silent nights, huddled and frozen in some terrible fear I find myself unable to name. I almost think I hear the mocking joy of my friends, but there is nobody here, and never shall be again. I try to read, to lose myself in something that is not the absence of humanity. How is it that the books speak to me of my isolation more acutely than the silence? For every treatise I read on this world and its workings, the more I know I am to spend my time left in it without comfort or reprieve. With every tale of love or society I feel more keenly the absence of both.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): I went to Egypt once with the Royal Society, to the temple of Ramses the Second in Abu Simbel. The place was remarkable, of course, but what sticks so keenly in my mind is the journey. Two days earlier, on the road from Aswan, I found myself separated from my fellow travellers. I do not not how it happened, but I spent two hours alone there, under the blazing sun, staring across the vast empty expanses of that ancient country. I revelled in the silence, then, embraced the loneliness like an old friend. But now that friend has devoured me, and I shall not emerge from its jaws. Not without your help.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): And you must help me, Jonah. If anyone knows of what might break me from this dreadful place, it is you. I know that what is done by those I cannot see might be felt here - I have found glasses broken and pages torn that were not so the night before. It is my hope that if I leave a letter here, in your institute, you might find it, you might be able to save me. I have no other hope.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): Please, Jonah, if you have any compassion within your heart, you will not leave me in this place.</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): Your loyal servant,</span>

<span class="statement elias-statement">ELIAS (STATEMENT): Barnabas.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Jonah Magnus did leave him in that place, John. He got the letter, oh yes, and was on good terms with Mordechai Lukas. He could have interceded, perhaps even saved him, but he did not. And it was not out of malice, or because he lacked affection for Barnabas Bennett: he retrieved those bones sadly enough when the time came. Bones that you can still find in my office, if you know where to look. No, it was because he was curious. Because he had to know, to watch and see it all.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: That's what this place is, John, never forget it. You may believe yourself to have friends, to have confidantes, but in the end, all they are is something for you to watch, to know, and ultimately to discard. *This,* at least, Gertrude understood.</span>

##### [SIGHS CONTENTEDLY]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Let us begin.</span>

##### [FOOTSTEPS ECHO AND THE DOOR OPENS]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Uh, sorry to interrupt, er, J-John's here! And he's - well he's - He seems - He seems angry.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Um, _[splutters]_ I actually think he's brought a coup - </span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Bouchard.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Easy.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Hello, Elias.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Goodness, John. Whatever happened to your hand? And your neck?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[Satisfied smirk]_ That one was me.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You look a mess.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Chuckles]_ I've had a hell of a week.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Martin, would you be so good as to fetch Melanie and Tim. I think it would be worth their time to be here.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Er. R-Right. Okay. I'll just... what, go then?</span>

##### [FOOTSTEPS, THEN DOOR CLOSES]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Okay. Let's do this.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Er, John? Do you... You want to get this on tape?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: No need, Basira. I've already got one running.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Now, you have something to ask me?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Go for it.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Before I strangle the grinning bastard.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Elias. Did you kill Gertrude Robinson? And Leitner?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: ##### [PLEASURED EXHALATION]</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: That's... That's quite nice, actually. Tingly... but sort of freeing. _[Chuckle]_ You know, even Gertrude never properly tried to compel me. I always wondered -</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: **Just** answer the question.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Or don't.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Oh, no need to worry about that. I just feel it's only fair to wait for your colleagues, John. They'll want to hear this too. Uh, it's also very important to me, in a personal capacity, that you understand I'm answering you of my own free will.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Angry]_ I don't care!</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I know, but I do. There's so much of this place, of ourselves, twisted by forces far beyond us. I just wanted you to know - </span>

##### [DOOR OPENS]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Uh, okay, okay, so I've got everyone, but I'm honestly kind of lost as to what's happening.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Speaking over Martin]_ Yeah, I...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Oh, Christ, what is it now?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Er, yeah, same question, please.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Snarling]_ Elias here is about to confess his crimes.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: What?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Oh.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Good?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Is, is that like, er...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Yes, I was just saying to John. It's very important to me you understand that no action I have taken has been controlled. I have done everything because I wished to.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Get to the point.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: _[Sighs]_ Of course, Detective. So. For the avoidance of any doubt. I killed Gertrude Robinson because she intended to destroy the Archives. And I killed Jurgen Leitner because he was... an unnecessary complication. Likely to tell John too much, too early.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Bloody hell!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Oh, no.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So-So-S-Sorry, that guy was **Jurgen Leitner?**</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: It was.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Daisy, where do I know that name from?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Oh, the Yousuf case. _An Introduction to Higher Anatomy._</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Ah... Oh, god! And you killed him? You sure we shouldn't be giving him a medal?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Very sure.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And Sasha? Did you kill her too?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sasha died almost a year ago, Martin.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Wh-What?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Oh, god.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: When Prentiss attacked, something else, it... it... it replaced her. I still don't know how, but - </span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Goddamn it! This is... _[dejected, exasperated sigh]_</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _[Splutters incomprehensibly]_ It wasn't... Sasha?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: He's right, Martin. The thing you remember as Sasha was nothing like her. It toyed with your memory. If I showed you a picture of the real Sasha now, you'd have no idea who it was.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So that thing we saw...?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Precisely. It finally tried to kill John. Then Leitner killed it. Then I killed Leitner. And I believe that brings us up to date. More or less.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What about Michael?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: What about him? An irritant. Interfering because he's bored, and he resents us. He has no purpose - </span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Right. That's enough for me. Even got it on tape.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Everyone get back.</span>

##### [SOUNDS OF CONSTERNATION AS DAISY DRAWS A GUN]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Daisy, wait.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Out the way.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Now hang, hang on, I thought you were about to arrest him.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Get out the way!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: John, do something!</span>

##### [INTERCOM BUZZES AND ELIAS CHUCKLES]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Don't.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: ...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Excuse me.</span>

##### [RINGING THAT CEASES UPON KEYPRESS]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Yes?</span>

<span class="rosie">ROSIE (INTERCOM): Elias, there are some police officers here to see you?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Ah, yes, thank you Rosie. Er, could you ask them to wait a minute or two?</span>

<span class="rosie">ROSIE (INTERCOM): Yep, will do.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: There. That should make it even easier for you. Right, Detective? I know you were planning to kill me, but surely an arrest is a consolation prize?</span>

##### [DAISY'S QUIVERING FRUSTRATION IS AUDIBLE]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Daisy?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Oh, didn't she tell you why she hadn't gone back to the station?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Allow me. She rightly suspected that I held evidence of various murders she had committed, and that I sent this to her superiors.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: ...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: She's quite the killer, your partner. All in the public good, of course. And she was correct, I spent some time acquiring that evidence. Or creating it. And while your superiors don't much care about the killings, the fact there is proof... They're not happy. And they want you brought in.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Heh. So I kill you, and go to jail. I'll take that deal.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: For someone who used to be a detective, you're remarkably reluctant to think things through. You think you're the only police officer eager to do violence and call it justice? No, there are plenty of other rabid dogs out there, mad with the hunt. And some of them have signed a Section 31. There are plenty of others your superiors can call on to clean up this mess.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Er... they wouldn't.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yeah. They would.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: And anyone close enough to be implicated. They **will** kill Basira.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Okay, wai-wai-wai-wait, that's the police that you're talking about! Okay, they... they wouldn't...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Would they?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I'm sorry, Basira.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: If the officers down there take you away...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Oh, but perhaps I was wrong when I called them. Maybe it was a false alarm.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What do you want?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Collateral.</span>

##### [PAPER IS PUSHED ACROSS THE DESK]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: That... What?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: A contract of employment. For Basira.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Uh?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, no...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Sign it, and I'll send your ex-colleagues on their way.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Basira, I...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Don't do it.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: There.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh damn it.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Hmm.</span>

##### [PUSHES BUTTON]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: False alarm, Rosie. Could you apologise to the officers for me, and thank them for their time.</span>

<span class="rosie">ROSIE (INTERCOM): Oh. Um. Alright...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: So... what, you're her boss now? Is that supposed to stop me?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Yes.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Um, I mean, she's still got a gun?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Ah, of course. Er, sometimes I forget how new you all are to this.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Basira is now tied to the Institute. All of you are. Like fingers on a hand. And I am the beating heart of it. Should I, or the Institute, be destroyed, you will all, unfortunately, follow suit.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Wait, what?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Yup, that sounds about right.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: And it would not be a pleasant death.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Bullshit!</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Then shoot me. Just squeeze the trigger, and watch the only person you care about die screaming. Your last connection to humanity.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Do it.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Daisy...</span>

##### [DAISY EXHALES, AND EVERYONE ELSE SIGHS AS SHE LOWERS THE GUN]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What do you want?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: The police are not the only ones who can find a use for your violence. I'm sure there'll be plenty here for you to do. Feel free to go where you like in the meantime. I'll be in touch.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You piece of -</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Daisy, it's... it's okay. We'll figure something out.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: This is insane!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: You get used to it.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Now that's taken care of, if you'll all give me and John a moment alone. I'm sure we have some things to discuss.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yeah.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Come on.</span>

##### [FOOTSTEPS AND DOOR CLOSES]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Come on, John, there's really no need for the scowl.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What do you want?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Honestly? To offer some congratulations. You're doing a lot better than I expected.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Feels like all I've managed to do is... not die.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: And believe me, that is a remarkably rare skill.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm not getting any answers out of this, am I?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: The easily digestible sort that wipe away any doubt and fear, and neatly organise your new world into happy little columns? No. Not from me.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: These are things you must discover on your own.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Why?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: _[Sighs]_ What are you?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... The Archivist.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Precisely. It is your job to chronicle these things, to *experience* them, whether first-hand or through the eyes of others. To simply be told, well...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It doesn't please your master?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Our master, John.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Emphatically]_ I never chose this.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You never wanted this, no. But I'm afraid you absolutely did choose it. In a hundred ways, at a hundred thresholds, you pressed on. You sought knowledge relentlessly, and you always chose to *see.* Our world is made of choices, John, and very rarely do we truly know what any of them mean, but we make them nonetheless.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Signs heavily]_ So what now?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You were doing fine before you forced this little scene. I suggest you continue.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So it *was* you sending me statements.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: A little bit of direction never hurt anybody. So to speak.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Chuckles]_ Directed towards what?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: The Unknowing. I need you to stop it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Again with - What **is** "the Unknowing?" Exactly.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: A ritual. The Stranger and its kin attempting to gather power enough to bring it closer.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: They're trying to, what, summon it?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Not exactly. These things that touch us, they... don't have a form of the sort that could exist in physical reality. So the Stranger wishes to remake that physical reality into something closer to itself. It wants to make this world its own.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And how do I stop it?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: *That* is what you need to find out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No. You are not doing that. I know you have Gertrude's notes, her, her files. She was working on a way to stop this. Not to mention that apparently you can... effortlessly see anything at any time!</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Hardly effortlessly, but I take your point.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So you obviously know how to stop it. You *could* just tell me!</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I could. But I believe that if I did so, you would fail. The Stranger is antithetical to us.</span>

##### [THE ARCHIVIST SIGHS HEAVILY]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: We thrive on ceaseless watching, on knowing too much. What we face is the hidden, the uncanny, and the unknown. If you are to stop them, you need to get better at seeing. And my explaining things is simply not enough.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And you can't just give me all of the statements?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: John, even when you had them all at your disposal, you barely got through one statement a week. Why do you think that is? It takes its toll on you. And I *know* you've had problems with moderation.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So it's... it's back to breadcrumbs, and statements, and risking my life talking to things that barely remember how to be human anymore?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: For now. I'll be in touch.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: ...</span>

##### [RESUMES WRITING]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Anything else?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Am I... Elias, am I still human?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: John, what does human even mean? I mean, *really?* You still bleed, you can still die. And your will is still your own, mostly. That's more than can be said for a lot of the 'real' humans out there.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: ...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You're worried about ending up like that thing, lurking in the dirt under the streets of Alexandria? Don't be. Just do what you need to, and you'll be fine. Understood?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I suppose so.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Good. Well, I have work to be getting on with. I'll send you a Return to Work form, but don't worry about the doctor's note. Now, if there's nothing else?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right.</span>

##### [CLICK]