---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG101 - #UNKNOWN - Another Twist"
date:           2018-05-16 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Nikola Orsinov, Breekon and Hope, Michael, Helen Richardson, The Archivist, Michael Shelley, Gertrude Robinson, Gabriel, Peter Lukas, Elias Bouchard, Ryan, The Circus of the Other, Lukas Family, The Coffin, Dikson, Kara Sea, Sannikov Land, Hesitation, Kidnapping, Consent, Trust, Tape Recorders, Taxidermy, Skin, Last Words, Human Sacrifice, Sacrifice, Identity, Avatars, Time, Mazes, Maps, Getting Lost, Prisons, Doors, Mirrors, Locks, Unreality, Heat, Cold, The Sea, Boats, Travel, Xenophobia, Maniaphobia, Scopophobia, Claustrophobia, Isolophobia, The Rituals, The Unknowing, The Great Twisting, The Stranger, The Spiral, The Eye, The Buried, The Lonely]
statement_of:   [Michael]
statement_to:   [The Archivist]
recorder:       [Direct]
voiced:         [Nikola Orsinov, The Archivist, Breekon, Hope, Michael, Helen Richardson]
episode_title:  Another Twist
episode_number: '101'
case_number:    'UNKNOWN'
statement_date: 
recording_date: 
event_date:     
summary:        "Statement of Michael, taken from subject. Date unknown."
content_flags:  [Body horror, Kidnapping, Betrayal, Unreality]
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag101-anothertwist
pdf:            https://drive.google.com/file/d/1apy6HMdSWF9sDyaJkaSx0uvWA1OM9ivY/view?usp=drivesdk
accessible_pdf: https://drive.google.com/file/d/18ryRkXpvajLq7I4ioAIz_5rucPDHzM3X/view?usp=drivesdk
official:       true
wiki_url:       https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_101:_Another_Twist
---

##### [CLICK]

##### [LOW BACKGROUND SOUNDS, POSSIBLY VOCAL; VOICES SOUND AS IF SOMEWHERE BELOW GROUND]

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: _[Sing-song]_ Oh, it does work! What have you been recording? Anything spooky?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ##### [GAGGED REPLY]</span>

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: Is it... your Elias who listens?</span>

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: Helloooooo!</span>

##### [MORE MUFFLED WORDS FROM THE ARCHIVIST]

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: He's mine now, and you can't have him back.</span>

##### [BACKGROUND HUMMING IS NOW POSITIVELY CHORAL]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ##### [QUESTIONING SOUNDS]</span>

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: Oh, don't worry, it's not for **you**. You won't even need a coffin - we're going to use every piece of *you.*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ##### [MUFFLED EXCLAMATION]</span>

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: Now could you two *please* move that thing somewhere far, far away?</span>

<span class="breekon">BREEKON: Not really.</span>

<span class="hope">HOPE: Needs to be near us.</span>

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: Well, just... just move yourselves away, and take it with you.</span>

<span class="breekon">BREEKON: Gotcha</span>

<span class="hope">HOPE: Right you are.</span>

##### [CHAINS RATTLE AS THEY PICK UP THE COFFIN AND DEPART; CHORAL HUM FADES, REPLACED BY BACKGROUND SOUND OF RAIN OUTSIDE, SOMEWHERE]

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: Right. Where were we?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ##### [MUFFLED INDIGNATION]</span>

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: Oh, of course! So, Elias, can I call you Elias? Let me set the scene, as I know you can't actually see this. He's tied to a chair - Sarah wanted to use nails, but I talked her out of it because I'm a *good* friend. You're welcome. And he is absolutely *surrounded* with waxworks. Not... *good* waxworks, though. Weird ones. Wax faces where you feel like you almost recognise who it's meant to be, but, then instead... ah, it's downright uncanny!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ##### [MORE MUFFLED INDIGNATION, POSSIBLY MUFFLED SWEARING TOO]</span>

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: Excuse me! I'm talking to your boss, and I would thank you not to interrupt.</span>

##### [ARCHIVIST CONTINUES TO GRUNT THROUGHOUT]

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: You know, I must say Elias, can I call you Elias? You have not raised this one very well.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ##### [MUFFLED REFUTATION?]</span>

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: He is *rude.* And he just will not stop asking questions. Ooh, but now, **I** can ask the questions! How are you *feeling?*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ##### [MUFFLED FEELINGS]</span>

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: Oh, wonderful. Now, about the whole skin thing... You see, originally, I was just planning to have you followed, in case you *found* that ancient relic one. I mean, my goodness, it is *very* powerful. And if you didn't come through, well, *you're* quite powerful yourself, and more than that, you are... *symbolically* appropriate _[chuckles]_ so I thought you'd make a lovely frock!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ##### [MUFFLED PANIC]</span>

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: Exactly! And, well, I was *going* to wait, but... y'know, have you ever had one of those backup plans that, when you think about it, they're, they're just more fun? So, I thought, out with the old, in with... well, in with the **you**!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ##### [PADDED PANICKY PROSTESTATIONS]</span>

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: Oh, no, I'm afraid he can't See you, can you Elias, can I call you Elias? What's the point of having a *secret* place of power if you can't hide it from a big, stupid eye? Anyway, you sit tight. Lots to do! Ooh, also, do you have preferred brand of lotion? Because you have not been taking care of your skin, and we really do need it in better shape before we peel you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ##### [EVEN MORE MUFFLED INDIGNATION]</span>

<span class="orsinov">ORSINOV: Alright, I'll just ask them to pick up a selection.</span>

##### [FOOTSTEPS LEAVE AND A DOOR CLOSES]

##### [THE ARCHIVIST IS BREATHING HEAVILY]

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [STILL RAINING]

##### [THE ARCHIVIST IS STILL BREATHING]

##### [STATICKY LAUGHTER FADES INTO HEARING]

##### [A DIFFERENT DOOR OPENS]

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Oh... Oh... Oh, Archivist. What have you done now? It's almost sad to see you like this.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ##### [LOW IRRITATED GROAN]</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Almost.</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I've come to a decision, Archivist. *I'm going to kill you.*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ##### [FRUSTRATED GROAN]</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: It's earlier than I had hoped, but that's life... I suppose. Your life. _[Giggles]_ Before I do, however, I want you to understand... even if it does go against my nature. So.</span>

##### [THE GAG IS REMOVED; THE ARCHIVIST GASPS]

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: _[Enunciating each word carefully]_ Ask your questions.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Ask me.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: H-How did you find me?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: _[Giggles]_ The Eye watches, and the Stranger conceals, but me... I lie, Archivist. I am the throat of delusion incarnate. They can't hide you from me.</span>

##### [GASPS AS THE ARCHIVIST CONTINUES TO RECOVER]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What do you have to do with the Unknowing?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Nothing. _[Giggles]_ Nothing whatsoever. Except perhaps that I would like it to fail.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So... wh - *Why* are you here?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I already said. To kill you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But - But why?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Because I don't want the Circus to win. And I don't want the Archives to, either. Killing you myself... it's the best of both. And, of course, there's revenge.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Revenge? I still don't even know who you are!</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I am Michael. I was not *always* Michael. I do not *want to be* Michael. Being Michael stole the only purpose I have ever known.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You were Gertrude's assistant, weren't you?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: No.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But, but the tape - I heard you.</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: _[Slowly]_ **No.** You heard Michael.</span>

##### [FRUSTRATED SOUNDS FROM THE ARCHIVIST]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... What the hell are you talking about?!</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Quiet, Archivist. The cramped casket sings loud, but not loud enough to drown out screaming. The Michael on that tape was not me. When that person was Michael, I was something else, and now **I** am Michael, and that person is gone.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So, what... You... you became him?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: No more than he became me. It is rare that someone I take finds their way into being me, but it does happen. And Michael had help.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What happened?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Hm...</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Ahhh, a *statement.* Of course. Is your recorder running?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Yes. Say it, Archivist.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement of... Michael. Taken from subject. Date...</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: The last day of the Archivist's life.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement begins.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): How far back should it go? To the beginning of me? Centuries? Millennia? How you define the start of your being when in some ways you have *always* been? Time is difficult to form. Michael Shelley, though, he is easier to keep track of. He was born. He was pointless. And he should have died. But before that could happen, he went to work for the Magnus Institute - that ivory tower, keeping its prisoners ignorant in pursuit of... knowledge. _[Giggles]_ A dungeon full of idiot watchers. And Michael Shelley was no exception.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): When he was in school, he lost a friend to something like me. His friend was named Ryan, but those in power simply called him schizophrenic. I don't know if he was, but it doesn't matter. He was so dreadfully afraid his world wasn't real that to make it so was almost nothing. Michael was there when he taken; he never got over what he saw. Or didn't see. After much searching and despair, it drove him into the waiting arms of the Institute, where he met Gertrude Robinson. The Archivist.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): Even being what I am, I have rarely seen anyone so adept at distorting the truth as Gertrude Robinson. Michael was protective of the frail old woman he believed her to be. So... so delicate, so forgetful, yet gently wise. He *cared* for her. He *trusted* her. And she *fed him* to me. She made him me to destroy our transcendence. And she did not hesitate.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): Poor Michael. He had been on trips for the Institute before. Conferences, investigations, Gertrude had made sure that all her assistants were ready. That none of them would be suspicious if they were told they were going abroad for work. So there was no doubt in his mind, no concern, when she told him that they were travelling to Russia. Perhaps if he'd have stopped to look up their destination, he might have discovered there was no such place as Zemlya Sannikova, but he did not. He trusted her.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): Even when they arrived in Dikson, at the edge of the Kara Sea, and they were picked up by a quiet sea captain called Peter Lukas, who kept muttering about how much he hated podcasts... Even then he trusted her. They travelled north, through cold far more bitter than any Michael had even conceived possible. And do you know what he worried about? _[Giggles]_ He... worried about Gertrude Robinson. About how this poor old woman might cope with the chill. But now she was like iron, and walked with a purpose that Michael had never before seen in her. The water turned to ice as the Arctic approached, and Gertrude's eyes turned cold.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): Then, at last, he began to be afraid. He asked her where they were going and was told again: Zemlya Sannikova. Sannikov Land. There was a great evil, she said, and Michael was going to help her fight it. Am I evil, Archivist? Is a thing evil when it simply obeys its own nature? When it *embodies* its nature? When that nature is created by those which revile it? Perhaps Gertrude believed so. Michael certainly did. He believed everything she told him.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): And it was **me** they sought to stop. Me and the others of It-Is-Not-What-It-Is. Our Great Twisting. The-Worker-of-Clay had laboured for decades on that contorted, *impossible* edifice of doors... and stairs... and falsehoods... and smiles. A thousand staring morsels stood, and not one of them believed themselves sane to look upon it. And in the centre, the door that would open to all the places that were never there, was me. I use the word 'apotheosis' not because it is correct, but because I can only show you its truth when we are within the passages themselves.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): And this is what Michael and Gertrude found when they set foot on Sannikov Land, which does not exist and never has. It was warm, and feeling its reassurance beneath his feet was the last time poor, doomed Michael knew comfort. They walked through the green jungle of that forever-elusive polar island, and up the gentle mountains that can never have a name. And at the top, they found us through our spiralling laughter. And they saw us in all of our glory.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): Michael did not go mad, though no words you could have said would have convinced him otherwise. The mind does not shatter, Archivist. It is soft and malleable. It bends and twists and returns to what it was, though what you see and feel may leave their mark upon it. If Michael thought he had lost his mind, it was only because what he saw with crystal clarity was simply not something that *could* be real.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): But Gertrude Robinson did not waver. She did not... hesitate. She gave no indication that she saw anything more or less than was expected. Hers was not a mind that left room for doubt. She stared into us carefully, her eyes scanning for something that was my heart. Looking for my door. And she found it.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): Perhaps I should have realised what was happening; seen those two lonely figures approaching me, but I cannot tell you the existential joys of truly... becoming. Of an entireness finally crossing the threshold into your self. So ecstatic was my completeness, I did not even hear my own door creak open. Because Gertrude had told Michael how he could stop us. She told him to walk through a door. And even then, with so much of his mind shut down in panic and terror, he *trusted* her. And he went inside, closing the door behind him.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): But Gertrude Robinson had given poor, disposable Michael one more thing before sending him to me. She had given him a map. I couldn't say how she would have gotten such a thing, or if she somehow made it. And yet it was a map. A map to me. It made no sense, lines overlapping and inverting, but once within, Michael knew which turns to make, which doors to open, which mirrors to shatter. Until he became *me.*</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): Even sharper than the joy of becoming is the agony of being opened and remade. To have your who torn bloody from your what, and another crudely lashed into its place. To *become* Michael. And to do so at such a crucial point in our Twisting, in our becoming, well of course it destroyed it. The impossible altar collapsed. The-Worker-of-Clay tore out his veins to dissolve himself in crimson mud. The others of us were cast to all the places that aren't; some have still not found their way out again. And somehow, Gertrude Robinson was back on that boat before Sannikov Land once again never existed.</span>

<span class="statement michael-statement">MICHAEL (STATEMENT): And all that was left was me. Michael. _[Giggles]_ My very existence tied to my *pointlessness.* Wearing my *failure* as the very fabric of my being. Reduced once again to feeding on the unsuspecting and confused. That is who I am.</span>

##### [DEEP GASP FROM THE ARCHIVIST]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But you... You never tried to take revenge on Gertrude?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: She knew how to protect herself. She knew what she was creating. And killing her was not as important. She wasn't as good an Archivist as you are.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So why not kill me before?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: I had hoped that you would stop the Unknowing first, destroy the workings of I-Do-Not-Know-You. But instead you are here, and may bring it about faster. So better your death happens now.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I - Is there anything I can do to stop you from killing me?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: _[Laughs]_ If you scream loud enough the Circus may take notice of me, but... I promise you will die far more pleasantly with me than with them.</span>

##### [MORE LAUGHTER]

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Ah...</span>

##### [RAIN CONTINUES TO FALL]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Defeated]_ Okay.</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Good. Right this way.</span>

##### [A DOOR CREAKS]

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: Open it. Open it, and all this will be over.</span>

##### [THE ARCHIVIST TURNS THE HANDLE AND HEARS AN ENGAGED LOCK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Er, it's...</span>

##### [HANDLE IS TRIED TWICE MORE]

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: What?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It's locked.</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: It's not. _[Giggles]_</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Why is it locked?</span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: It can't be!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well, you try it!</span>

##### [FRANTIC HANDLE TURNING - THE LOCK CONTINUES TO CLICK]

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: _[Worried]_ Th-Tha-That-That's... not - </span>

<span class="michael">MICHAEL: _[Realisation dawns]_ Oh. Oh no.</span>

##### [DISTORTED SCREAMS OF PAINFUL AND TERMINAL OPENING]

##### [THE NEW DOOR CREAKS OPEN]

<span class="helen">HELEN: Do you want to come in?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Wh... Helen? H-Helen Richardson? But... But y - Michael...</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Michael isn't me. Not now.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What happened?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: He got... distracted. Let feelings that shouldn't have been his overwhelm me.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Lost my way.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And now? Y - **You're** Helen?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: I don't know. I never know, not really. Do I need a name?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Ah... No, I s-suppose not.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Helen is... better than Michael.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But she's gone.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Yes. As is Michael. There's only me.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... Okay.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Do you still want to leave here?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: A-are you still going to kill me?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: No. That was Michael's desire, not mine.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So... S-So what **do** you want?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: I don't know. Helen liked you, so... there's a lot to consider. But I will help you leave.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Wait, is this... Mic - Y-You're the Distortion, the, the, the Liar. How do I know this isn't... a, a trick?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: And if it was, what would you do about it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. Right...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Plaintive]_ How long have I... b-been here? There's no... It was hard to keep track - </span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: *Time* is hard, Archivist. It's difficult to follow without a proper mind, especially here. A while.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: The door is open, if you're ready?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, not, not really, but...</span>

##### [DEEP SIGH FOLLOWED BY STATIC]

##### [CLICK]