---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG091 - #0172804-A - The Coming Storm"
date:           2018-01-31 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Michael Crew, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Basira Hussain, The Archivist, Elias Bouchard, Grant Walker, Dominic Swain, Police, Section 31, Ex Altiora, The Boneturner's Tale, The Journal of a Plague Year, Grey Cyrillic Book, Chichester, Tour Montparnasse, Falling, Flying, Weather, Compulsion, Child Harm, Hospitals, Medical, Tea, Bookstores, Burying Things, Agorophobia, Maniaphobia, Scopophobia, The Vast, The Spiral, The Eye, The Hunt]
statement_of:   [Michael Crew]
statement_to:   [The Archivist]
recorder:       [Direct]
voiced:         [Michael Crew, The Archivist, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Basira Hussain]
episode_title:  The Coming Storm
episode_number: '091'
case_number:    '0172804-A'
statement_date: 2017-04-28
recording_date: 2017-04-28
event_date:     
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag91-thecomingstorm
pdf:            https://drive.google.com/file/d/15lxjYCTUekOARGFjtw6G2DXvFmOPDY4h/view?usp=drivesdk
accessible_pdf: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1A6XopSKqX8mDcCZ-1_NM5KSUcWi7zYD2/view?usp=drivesdk
official:       true
wiki_url:       https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_91:_The_Coming_Storm
---

##### [CLICK]

<span class="mike">MIKE: You're sure I can't get you a cup of tea?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh, it-it's fine, really.</span>

<span class="mike">MIKE: Okay. You just seem a bit... jumpy, is all.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, I just, er... Coming in I thought... It's fine.</span>

<span class="mike">MIKE: Grand. Er, okay, what can I do for you?</span>

##### [SOUNDS OF TEA BEING MADE]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Er... You're... you're Michael Crew, right?</span>

<span class="mike">MIKE: It's Mike, please.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right.</span>

##### [SPOON NOISES]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Leadingly]_ I'm from the Magnus Institute.</span>

<span class="mike">MIKE: Oh, you, uh, yeah, you said.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, er... I read... You feature in some of our statements!</span>

<span class="mike">MIKE: Oh. Statements of what?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You... There was, there was a book? Er, two of them, at least. Er... _Ex Altiora,_ _The Boneturner's Tale._</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You, uh, I think you threw a guy off a skyscraper in Paris.</span>

<span class="mike">MIKE: Hmm. Last chance for that cup of tea.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... Where did you get that scar?</span>

##### [LONG SIGH AS THE SOUND OF RUSHING AIR RISES]

<span class="mike">MIKE: And I was trying so hard to be polite.</span>

##### [THE ARCHIVIST ATTEMPTS A SCREAM BUT TO NO AVAIL]

<span class="mike">MIKE: Hard, isn't it, trying to ask prying questions at terminal velocity? The air... it doesn't... leave your lungs like you expect it to. I mean, *I* know you're still sat down, *you* know you're still sat down. But whether your *body* knows it when I decide you hit the ground, that's... that's something I haven't made my mind up about, yet.</span>

<span class="mike">MIKE: A little bit of privacy. Is that really so much to ask? I suppose it is, isn't it? From you and yours at least. We have a lot in common, really. After all, what, what good's the height, the terrifying draw of gravity, unless you, unless you really know the scale of what you're facing?</span>

<span class="mike">MIKE: Maybe I'll let you live, allow you to drag yourself back down to your den, but... you need to learn some respect.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): My scar, wasn't it? Always the scar. Ironic, in some ways, because that was one the few marks that was only really ever physical. I got it when I was struck by lightning, age of eight. I was playing outside with a friend of mine, and the storm just came on quickly. That's really all there was to it.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): Have you ever been struck by lightning? No. No, of course not. Not unless that's what happened to your hand, but I'm guessing that burn came from sticking it somewhere it wasn't wanted. And you still didn't learn. Well, imagine a white-hot, stinging pain, your whole body becoming rigid, like for an eternal moment you're frozen, you're trapped in a statue of yourself with a thousand needles of agony just erupting through you from the inside out. I don't know if it's **the** most painful thing that can happen to the human body, but... beyond a certain point trying to quantify and measure pain, it becomes pointless. That point is being struck by lighting.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): The part that always bothered me was how I didn't remember it. Not really. The sensation's still vivid enough, but it exists in my mind completely detached from any actual memory. I remember the *feeling,* but not the event. One moment I'm playing amid raindrops the size of blueberries, and the next I'm in a white hospital bed, that acrid smell still surrounding me, and these lines of agony just carved through my skin.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): The doctors told me there would be no long-term damage from my accident. They, they were wrong, of course, but the damage wasn't something they could see, so how were they to know? Sitting alone in my room, tracing the lines of electricity with my finger, imagining my pain travelling these branching pathways. I was obsessed with it, and every time my finger reached the end of the line I felt a jolt of fear, because I, I knew they went further, went deeper than would show on my skin.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): By age ten I was reading everything I could on what had happened to me. Electricity, Lichtenberg's experiments, meteorology. My parents thought it was simply my way of recovering, of processing my trauma, but there was something else there. I know that now.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): Did you know that Lichtenberg figures are fractals? I didn't, not back then, but as they travelled along the length of my scars, I sometimes think like my fingertips could feel it. When I was twelve, curled under my bed to escape the pounding of the rain against my window, the roll of thunder that just rattled my skull, I began to travel them once again. My hands ran down and along those jagged, discoloured lines, every branch, every turn, my nostrils full of ozone, my veins full of fear. And they didn't stop. I knew where my scars ended, but... those I traced in the dark that night, they just went on and on and on, far beyond me and to somewhere that still flashed with that unspeakable white light.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): That was the night everything changed. Before it I was odd, certainly, probably traumatised, and gripped with a terror of storms, but after that night, things were different. I think, looking back, that was when I called it. That was when it caught my scent.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): It delighted in toying with my perceptions, making me believe a storm was approaching, forcing me to run for shelter or desperately hunt for cover without warning. In the dark it would stand beneath my bedroom window, the light flaring, flashing the awful brightness of sheet lightning across my room.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): I could never look directly at it. The bright, arcing glow of its insides almost blinded me when I tried. It was almost a man, but I could never be sure. Its strobing, flashing Lichtenberg organs changed and flickered too fast. It... never hurt me. Not once in all the years I was chased by its... malevolence. Of course, I know why that is now, but at the time it did nothing to dull my fear.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): I remember when it found out where I lived. I had dreamed that night of shifting, branching avenues of light. I travelled them so fast I could feel my flesh peeling away, leaving nothing but the coursing, buzzing pain within me as I ran down these hideous corridors, aching for an end I knew simply wasn't there. I woke up screaming into the darkness. Walking to the window, I looked out over the tiny garden below. I was sixteen at the time, and the house I lived in had a small patch of green behind it, just fighting against the pressing grey of the city, the dull glow of the light pollution overhead. But where the back wall should have been, there was a small wooden gate.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): I didn't feel the cold as I opened the back door, and walked out towards it. My... my tormentor was nowhere to be seen, but the blackened edges of the gate showed clearly it had passed by. Was I afraid? It's hard to remember now, but I have to assume that I was. I mean, I must have been. As I pushed the ancient hinges back to reveal this darkened forest, how could I not have been?</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): It stretched away forever, I think, or as close to forever as the human mind can contain. The trees were long and spindly, their branches bare and reaching, as they grew down towards me out of the sky, their roots pulsing upwards into this roiling mass of clouds; the scorched and shattered trunks reeking of ozone.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): I found _The Journal of a Plague Year_ when I was seventeen. I was lucky, I suppose, that it wasn't anything worse. It infected the house, of course, brought it crashing down upon my parents in a collapse of diseased brick and septic foundations, but I escaped. And more than that, my eyes were opened to the powers that might save me. Might protect me from a past that followed me so **brightly** I could barely see it. But I knew that Filth was not for me. Buzzing flies and rot disgusted me, but they never spoke to my soul. I threw the book into a sewer, and began my hunt.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): _The Boneturner's Tale_ was next. Found tucked away in a waterlogged library basement, and deposited back in another. I played with it, but when I tried to shift the bits of myself I thought might set me free, the only shapes I could form with them were laced with that horrid, hunting fractal. My experiments weren't entirely pointless, though, they did have a truth to me. I learned that I was more than capable of killing, if it brought me closer to what I needed.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): I spent some time with a small grey volume, I think it was in Cyrillic, that decided it was at home amongst my bookshelves. I couldn't read it, of course, but... when it tried to read me back, I buried it on a lonely stretch of moorland.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): Finally I found what I was searching for. In the back of a Chichester bookshop, I found my release. _Ex Altiora._ 'From the Heights'. The owner didn't want to part with it, a nasty, grubby little man who stank of sweat and self-importance, but I got it. And at last I had what I needed.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): The thing that chased me, you see, it was an arcing branch of the Twisting Deceit, taken shape to follow me. But the shape it had taken more rightly belonged to the sky. To those same vast unknowable heights that blessed book wanted to take me. Falling had always held a special place in my heart, that wonderful border between terror and delight. When my parents would take me to the fair, I always found my way to the highest ride, the one that would just send me plummeting. It wasn't simply the rush of adrenaline, but something, something deeper, something that just gripped my soul with this ecstatic horror. And I knew within that book was something that could not only release me from my pursuer, but chain my being to that rush of wind and vertigo forever.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): I don't remember that night in detail. The two most important events in my life, and I have clear memories of neither. I know it was the first storm, the first *real* storm, I had seen for almost ten years, but nothing else remains in my mind. There are echoes of resignation, I think, almost desperation. That *can't* be right, though. What reason would I have had not to jump? Not to become as I am now. Perhaps I just didn't know the true joy of vertigo. It doesn't matter. In the end I threw myself into the arms of that vast emptiness, and I bound my tormentor to the book.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): That's... that's all, I think. Since then I've embraced my new life; gladly fed that which feeds me.</span>

<span class="statement mike-statement">MIKE (STATEMENT): A... uh, a Paris skyscraper, was it you said? I honestly, I, I can't say I recall it in detail, but that does... sounds about right. Sometimes it's hard to keep track.</span>

<span class="mike">MIKE: Hm. You know, that was... that was nice. I'm not, not usually the sort for speeches. That was... pleasant change. So.</span>

##### [LOUD SOUNDS OF RUSHING AIR AND THE ARCHIVIST GASPS]

<span class="mike">MIKE: Off you go, then.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Breathing heavily]_ I, er... You-</span>

<span class="mike">MIKE: Archivist. Take my mercy and leave. You have touched something few ever walk away -</span>

##### [DOOR KNOCKING]

<span class="mike">MIKE: I thought you said you came alone?</span>

##### [GASPING GURGLES]

<span class="mike">MIKE: Hm.</span>

##### [OPENS DOOR]

<span class="mike">MIKE: Can I hel - UGHH!</span>

##### [SHORT-LIVED SOUNDS OF ALTERCATION]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Detect... Detective?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Shut up. He human?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Is this man human?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... Er, no, I, I don't think so. Not anymore.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Right. What does it do?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Er, he... It feels like, he makes you... Vertigo. Like you're falling.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Has he killed people?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Er, y-y-yes. Yes, a few, I think.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Does he need to see you to do it? Does he need to speak?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I-I don't know.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Okay.</span>

##### [ADDITIONAL SOUNDS OF KICKING]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Doubt he can do it in a coma. Now turn that off, and help me get him in the car. Don't try to run.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What are you -</span>

##### [PUNCH]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What did I say about questions? I said turn that off!</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [SOUND OF WIND AND VOICES ARE SOMEWHAT MUFFLED]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: This is it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Out of breath]_ So... so what now? You kill us?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You think he's going to save you?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What? What, no -</span>

##### [GUNSHOT]

##### [THE ARCHIVIST CRIES OUT]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Now... let's see the bag.</span>

##### [THE ARCHIVIST IS STILL GASPING]

##### [SOUND OF ZIPPER]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: One wallet, brown leather, no cash. One packet cigarettes, Silk Cut. One lighter, gold, spiderweb design. One pocket knife... blunt. Huh. One set of keys to the Magnus Institute. And one tape record -</span>

##### [VOICES BECOME CLEARER AS DAISY EXTRACTS RECORDER]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You sneaky little freak! You want to record this? Alright. I'd have to destroy it anyway.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What, I? I, I didn't -</span>

##### [RUSTLING NOISES]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Pl-Please don't shoot me.</span>

##### [SOUNDS OF PANIC]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Why are you doing this? Tell me!</span>

##### [GURGLES MORE AS DAISY GRABS HIM ROUND THE THROAT]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Stop... asking... questions!</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: That's how you want it? Fine. You brought a knife. So we go through the voicebox.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Daisy!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: ...</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Daisy, put him down.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You been following me, Basira?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Didn't need to. I know what you do here.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: He tell you?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: He didn't need to. You're not that subtle. But I - I always thought you just killed monsters.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I do!</span>

##### [ARCHIVIST CONTINUES TO STRUGGLE]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Just let him go.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You don't know what he **is.** You don't know what it's like to have your secrets *pulled out* like teeth, just because he asked?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm sorry, I didn't -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Shut up!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Daisy!</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Don't you... Don't you dare look at me like I'm crazy! It got you too, or do you think we gave him those tapes because we *like* handing out evidence?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: That's not how it happened.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: No? You ask me to take a tape over to this murdering freak, and I'm all set to tear you a new one for it. But then I get the cassette in my hand, and suddenly all I want to do is deliver his *tapes,* and spill my guts.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So, so now you kill him?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: First him, then his creepy boss.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: This is too far, Daisy. You know it is.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: He murdered two people, Basira. Maybe more. I've done one monster today, no reason not to do another.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I didn't... I didn't kill anyone!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: For god's sake look at him!</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Then who?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I thi - I thi - I think it was Elias.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yeah. Well he's on my list too.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: What if he asks?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: You reckon he can mind control people. Make them tell the truth? Why not try it on Elias?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: ...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: He's got, he's got his own... He *knows* things. Would that work?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't know. I, I could try.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Daisy! This might be our only chance to find out what's going on.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: ...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Alright. But if this doesn't work, you're still dead.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Exhaling heavily]_ Yeah. Yeah.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What about Mike?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Who? Oh.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Grab a spade.</span>

##### [CLICK]