---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG111 - #0173006 - Family Business"
date:           2018-07-25 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Gerard Keay, Mary Keay, Gertrude Robinson, Julia Montauk, Trevor Herbert, The Archivist, Jurgen Leitner, Robert Smirke, John Flamsteed, Max Mustermann, Erika Mustermann, Jan Kelly, The Skin Book, The Bone Book, USA, Hainault, Direct Statements, Books, Corpse Mutilation, Hospitals, Mothers, Parents, Child Harm, Child Abuse, Cigarettes, Tobacco, Alcohol, The Rituals, The Unknowing, The Watcher's Crown, Scopophobia, Thanatophobia, Xenophobia, The Eye, The End, The Hunt, The Stranger]
statement_of:   [Gerard Keay]
statement_to:   [The Archivist]
recorder:       [Direct]
voiced:         [The Archivist, Julia Montauk, Trevor Herbert, Gerard Keay]
episode_title:  Family Business
episode_number: '111'
case_number:    '0173006'
statement_date: 2017-06-30
recording_date: 2017-06-30
event_date:     
summary:        "Statement of Gerard Keay, deceased, regarding the death of his mother, Mary Keay. Statement taken posthumously from subject, June 30th 2017."
content_flags:  [undead, spousal violence, blood, body horror, abuse, child abuse, toxic relationships, manipulation, abandonment, suicide, suicidal ideation, assisted suicide]
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag111-familybusiness
pdf:            https://drive.google.com/file/d/1P-zkqtdSpPXWL1ESdj-8aBsUddRQIYkP/view?usp=drivesdk
accessible_pdf: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1HMBNILIT3QLlfv2cFPInY5vddOcDsSH3/view?usp=drivesdk
official:       true
wiki_url:       https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_111:_Family_Business
---

##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right, so I just... read it?</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: He's the last page.</span>

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: _[Snorts]_ Good luck. I guess.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Ah, you're not staying to... I dunno, keep an eye on me?</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: It's not a... Trevor doesn't like using the book. I don't either. Makes me feel off. Dead should stay dead.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: S-So... I mean, why keep it around?</span>

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: 'Cause sometimes talking to the dead can stop you joining 'em. Come on Julia.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Ah, just give us a knock when you're done.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sure.</span>

##### [DEPARTING FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sure...</span>

##### [DOOR CLOSES]

##### [STILLNESS SAVE FOR THE NORMAL BACKGROUND CHIRP OF INSECTS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right... _[Exhales]_</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Okay.</span>

##### [DEEP BREATH]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: "His consciousness faded in and out like the tide. He tried to refuse their drugs, though for what purpose even he could not have said. Perhaps he was simply trying to push away the smell of disinfectant and grief that rose from his hospital bed. She was there sometimes, the one he had followed around the world. There was almost sadness in her eyes. He felt himself begin to slip, the icy certainty of what was happening seeping through his flesh, and as he fell away for the final time, he felt that all-consuming fear. And his only thought was to cry out for his mother. But with the last vestige of his stubborn will, he refused. *She* would not claim his last moment. He was silent.</span>

##### [OMINOUS RUMBLE WITH A SIDE OF CRACKLING RISES TO CRESCENDO]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And so Gerard Keay ended."</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Gerard? Gerard Keay?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: You're new. Did you kill them?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh... who?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: The Hunters. They had this book. Are they dead?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: N-No.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Then *piss off.* I told them I'm not talking.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sorry, what?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: _[Tired]_ I'm not their bloody *Monster Manual.* I'm done.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I-I didn't - I mean, that's not what this is.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: No? They didn't hand me over for you to use, like I'm a bloody dictionary wrapped in a special box?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh... Yeah.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Like I said.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: ...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: You got a cigarette?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh, oh, yeah. Here. C-Can you smoke it?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Ugh. I guess not.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: ...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Yeah...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: ...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Nice lighter. You a spider freak, then?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What? Oh! Er, no. I-I never really, uh... I never really thought of it. I-I'm John. I'm with the Magnus Institute.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I'm the Archivist.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: When did she die?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: About a year after you did.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Was it peaceful?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Good. Don't think she would have wanted that.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: God, I can't imagine her dying in bed.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: ...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: So you're the new guy, then? Following in her footsteps?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I mean, some of them. They... don't exactly lead where I thought they would.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Yeah, she was like that.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I'm trying to stop the Unknowing.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: _[Exhales]_ She didn't manage it, then?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Not before she, uh... I need your help.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: _[Snorts]_ Do you now?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: She thought she'd found a-a way to stop it. I think. If anyone knows what that was, it's you.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: ...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: No.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What? W-Why not? If, if it happens, if the Circus -</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Yeah, the world changes in horrible ways. For **you**. I'm a book.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You can't be serious.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I'm dead serious.</span>

##### [GHOSTLY CHUCKLE]

<span class="gerard">GERARD: It *hurts.* Being like this. And it's not like any pain you can feel when you're alive. It's... it hurts to exist. To be dead and still **here**. And those two want to keep me like this, so I can answer questions about their Dracula of the week. So no. Help me, or you go to your little apocalypse with nothing.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Fine. What do you want?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I want to go away. I want you to take my page and burn it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I-I can't do th - They'd know! They'd kill me.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Tear it out and take it, then. Do it somewhere else.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: B-B-But if they check the book - </span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Guess you better hope they don't.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Gerard, please...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: You want answers, you tear out my page now! So I know you can't back out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Deep sigh]_ Okay.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Okay.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Exhales]_ Ready?</span>

##### [GERARD INHALES, SUPPRESSING THE PAIN, OVER THE SOUND OF FIBRES RIPPING]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: There.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Thank you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well, you've probably killed me.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Dying isn't so bad. It's staying dead that sucks.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well, these nuggets of wisdom are certainly worth it so far.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Relax. They won't notice.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Okay, you got questions.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Just one. How do I stop the Unknowing?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: _[Casually]_ No, I don't know.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Incensed]_ What?!</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Oh, okay, okay, I don't know *exactly,* but... me and Gertrude went all over, tracking clowns and skinwalkers, trying to find a way to mess it up. I didn't find much, but Gertrude, she figured a few things out. She reckoned it could be *delayed,* but nothing we could do beforehand would actually stop it properly. Even the Dancer could be replaced. But, once it starts, then it might be vulnerable.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Vulnerable to what?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I dunno.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, goddamn it!</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: But she did say she thought she had something that could do it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Well, not long before I ended up in the hospital, she told me that if something got her first, I was... There's a storage unit on an industrial estate up near Hainault. She said she rented it under the name Jan Kelly, and hid a key for it somewhere in the Archives.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh. Uh, I-I think I found that.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Well, it's in *that* storage unit. Whatever she thought might disrupt the ritual, stop the Unknowing, that's where it'll be.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But you don't know what it is?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: No. When I asked her, she said she'd show me when we got back to London. Mind you, she had this weird look in her eyes, like it was some kind of a joke.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I mean... it wasn't, w-was it? A-A joke.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I don't think so. Gertrude didn't make jokes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well, worst-case scenario I suppose I... continue to have nothing.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I guess.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: ...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: So... uh, you're the Archivist now?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Whatever that means.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Can't help you much there. Gertrude was always kind of cagey about it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sh-She never showed any... er, abilities, or talked about... I don't know, destiny? Like she was... b-becoming something?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Hmmm... Well, she could make people tell her stuff, sometimes. They'd suddenly get real talkative, and lay out whatever she needed. She didn't do it often though. I don't think she liked it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Perky]_ Oh, er, I can do that, too.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Huh. Do you like it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I don't know. I never really thought about it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes, I... I suppose I do.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Hmmm.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Did she read statements?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Sometimes. If she was getting shaky. They perked her up, I think. Feeding the Eye, you know? I'd sometimes hear her through the wall, just reading into the air, feeling it all.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: She... she didn't use a tape recorder?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Not when I was with her. She travelled light. Left things behind.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Kind of sounds like you didn't... trust her.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Yeah, I didn't. I wanted to, I really did, but it was *always* the work. Sometimes she just reminded me of my mum.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Did you ever meet her, my mum?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Flustered]_ Erm... Not in, not in person, it was er... O-Only by reputation.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Huh. Well, she was also, um, 'goal-orientated'. Ruthless. But at least Gertrude tried to do something worthwhile with it. My mum only had her ambitions. She'd never have even admitted it, though. She was too proud for that. She saw herself as real working class, always said the occult was just a club for rich boys playing politics with things they didn't understand. Reckoned her tradition was less the academic and more the, uh...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: V-Village witch?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: _[Laughingly]_ You sure you don't know her?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Yeah. But deep down what she wanted wasn't all that different from the ivory tower idiots she hated. Y'know, I think, secretly, she dreamed of starting a little mystic dynasty of her own. With me.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Like the, the Lukases? Or the Fairchilds?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Well, Fairchild's just a name, they're not really family. The Lukases, though, yeah. Thing is, it's harder than it looks. What's out there... doesn't care about blood.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well, I-I mean, except for the vampires...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Yeah, *obviously* except for the vampires. But they care about your choices, your fears, not your parents. Families are just useful 'cause they can push you in the right direction. And the Lukases are very good at that.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And I imagine they're not... reluctant to remove any members that might put that legacy at risk.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Right. You know, for a group that worships a power of loneliness, they never seem to have any problems breeding, or finding spooky singles to marry them. Just one of those things, I guess. But most times you try to put your descendants on the path to worship, it doesn't go great. Just takes one stubborn heir to freak out about the truth, and the whole thing comes crashing down.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And... that was you?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Yeah. Turns out not everyone grows up caring about power and knowledge like my mum.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What happened?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I tried to abandon her.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I see.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Do you... want to make a statement?</span>

##### [GERARD GIVES A SMALL LAUGH]

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Why not? I'll try to make it quick, before the Van Helsings get bored.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. _[Cough]_ Right.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Er... Statement of Gerard Keay, deceased, regarding the death of his mother, Mary Keay. Statement taken posthumously from subject, June 30th, 2017.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement begins.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): My mum spent her whole life feeling cheated.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): She used to tell me with a kind of sneer that "destiny is for lords", and I think in her own way she actually believed that. You know, she felt we weren't important enough for a destiny. But she never forgot that she came a noble house: Von Closen. All wrapped up in mystery and power. At least, that's what my mum believed. I was never able to find much on them, at all. Nothing that would say there was anything special about them except, y'know, maybe their connection to the Magnus Institute and Jonah Magnus. But **she'd** never accept that. To her, her ancestors were these 'powerful sages of terrible gods', their 'destinies stolen from them by an idle dilettante'. _[Snorts]_ Least that's how she told it to me.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): I remember that Jurgen Leitner was the first *man* I ever really hated. I'd never met him, but that was the name on the books that my mum spent all her time reading, and half the time when she actually looked at me, it was to teach me about one of *them.* She idolised him, I think, almost as much as she despised him. She thought he'd managed what she always dreamed of: using these entities, without being bound to them. I think she saw him as some kind of sorcerer. So she studied those books that she could find, but she always came back to this one, this unnamed catalogue of the trapped dead. It was her first, she always told me, and would probably be her last.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): I never knew my dad. Not really. He worked in the Archives like you, but quit once I was born. I think he wanted to help raise me. But mum didn't need the help, and after me she wasn't able to have kids again, so she killed him in his sleep to practice her bookbinding. I guess she failed. I always thought he was in *here,* but when I eventually got hold of it, there wasn't a page in there.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): She did her best to look after me, and bring me into this world she inhabited, but she wasn't a caring mother or a skilled teacher. My struggling at her lessons infuriated her. I mean, looking back now I can see that her knowledge was basic at best. But I was a kid. I could only try to avoid her temper, and learn my weird lessons, writing out nonsense, and pretending I understood paradoxes that most adults couldn't handle.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): We travelled a lot. Between her day job as a rare bookseller and her... vocation, it wasn't often we stayed in London for more than a month. We met with things that almost made me throw up I was so afraid, and she'd talk to them like old friends. It was awful, but I suppose in many ways, it worked. Whenever I tried to run away the 'real' world seemed so... ignorant I could never be a part of it. So I did my best to find my place within my mum's world. As an idiot teenager I hunted Leitner's books with the best of them, even found a few. I'd bring them home, and watch her eyes light up. But it was always the books that she was happy to see.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): Eventually, I grew old enough and wise enough to see her obsession for what it really was: hubris. She lived just carefully enough not to be destroyed by things she studied, but that was it. The things out there, they weren't like taming fire, they couldn't be contained or used for light or warmth. The best you could hope for from them, would be that they don't spot you, and instead my mum chased after them, obsessed with others who had tried to stare at them without being blinded: y'know, Flamsteed, Smirke, Leitner. Idiots who destroyed themselves chasing a secret that wasn't worth knowing. And the worst thing was, she marked me as a part of that, without my understanding. Or consent.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): Our relationship, such as it was, it quickly went downhill. But I never managed to leave. I just couldn't bring myself to finally cut that cord and abandon her, no matter what she said. And I think she *knew* that. I think she knew she had me trapped. But it was a hollow victory. She also knew that I wouldn't continue her work, that whatever destiny she had tried to write for the Von Closen line, died with her. I think that might have been what finally pushed her to do it. To try and take full control of the book.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): I remember the smell when I came back to the shop that day, the heavy blood smell. She had just finished writing on the third sheet she'd hung on that old fishing wire, laced between the shelves, and she was on the edge of passing out. She wouldn't stop, though. She wouldn't give in. She thrust a razor blade and a marker pen at me, and begged me to help her finish. Everything was red, every possible shade of dark, and wet, and drying crimson. I turned to run but I slipped, fell to the floor and I crawled, panicking, down into the street. I managed to stagger to a coffee shop across the road, and I just sat there in shock until the police arrived.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): Between the blood on my clothes, eyewitnesses who saw me leaving, and the fact the mutilations were so awful the judge said it was "inconceivable to suggest they were self-inflicted", it seemed like an open-and-shut case. And honestly, there was a part of me which thought a life in prison was an alright price for freedom. Trouble was, whatever ritual my mum tried to do? It worked. She had bound herself to the book, and was able to manifest almost at will. How she removed it from police custody I don't know, but it left enough of the other evidence 'contaminated' that my case was judged a mistrial. I was later told there wasn't enough evidence to charge me again. Apparently, several witnesses had withdrawn their testimony. I wasn't going to be imprisoned, but... I was a long way from free.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): She was waiting for me when I got home. The half-finished ritual had left her... damaged. She was powerful, but... erratic. Of course she blamed me for her new state, said if I had helped her she would have been completely beyond death. But as she was, she wasn't going anywhere.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): For the next *five years* she haunted my life. I did what she asked, but whenever her form faded for a few days, I would take what little revenge I could: I burned books, I covered leads. I occasionally fled to somewhere I thought it'd be hard for her to follow.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): And in the end, it was Gertrude who saved me. She came to me when I was desperate, nowhere to go, and she offered to help. I just had to make sure I took the book while my mum was fading, and brought it to her, and then she would free me. I didn't really believe her, I don't think, but I did it anyway. When she returned the book to me a week later, her pages burned and mangled, I think I actually cried with relief. </span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): I never even considered that my mum might have taught Gertrude how to make pages for it before she was destroyed.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): _[Sigh]_ I think you know the rest. I joined Gertrude's work for a few years. Didn't realise how ill I was until it finally caught up with me. Then I died.</span>

<span class="statement gerard-statement">GERARD (STATEMENT): I think... I think I finally understand why she brought me back. I just don't understand why she left me behind.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What was Gertrude's work?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: What?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I mean, I - Sorry, I-I know a lot about what Gertrude *did,* but I don't really know... why she was doing any of it, or w-what her intentions were.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Same as you. I think.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Stopping the Unknowing?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Not just the Unknowing. All of them.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: There are more rituals...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: That's what she said.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: W-W-What do they do?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I mean... they change the world. They make it new.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: An apocalypse.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Kind of.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: How much *do* you know about these things, the Eye and that?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't - Uh... they're, they're malicious. Many consider them god-like and t-they have the power to affect the world in unnatural ways, but they cannot directly exist within it, so they rely on avatars or, or servants that they corrupt and... sometimes monsters that they create. They use their power in ways small enough to stay hidden, a-and I think... I think they feed on our fear.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: No, they don't *feed* on it. They *are* it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What? W-what do you mean?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I mean what I said. These things, these *forces,* they *are* our fear. Deep fears. Primordial. Always looking for ways to grow and spread.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No... B-B-But that doesn't - I m-mean, it doesn't make -</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: What? So you thought it was coincidence that unknowable alien consciousnesses from beyond our universe just so happen to basically be all the things we're terrified of?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I - How?!</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: No idea.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Smarter people than me have died trying to figure *that* one out. I mean, maybe they appeared out of nothing the first time something felt afraid. Maybe they're older than that, and they just got inspired by all the things that we dread. Did they make themselves from our fears, or are they why we're afraid? I really don't know.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But, but not everything they do inspires fear.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: And if you're having an omelette for lunch, not every moment is spent eating the omelette. Some things take preparation. Especially if, you know, your spatula has a bit of free will. And sometimes I think bits of them just... ooze into the world without any purpose at all. Or sometimes they're summoned.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Fears change. Fears are-are-are cultural.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: A lot of them, yeah, but others are deeper than that. And when our fears change, so do these things. But it's not quick. Gertrude reckons they've basically been the same since the Industrial Revolution. She and my mum both liked to follow Smirke's list of fourteen.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Disbelievingly]_ Th - I mean, there are a lot more than fourteen things to be afraid of in the world. Where do you draw the line?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Hmmm.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I always think it helps to imagine them like colours. The edges bleed together, and you can talk about little differences: "oh, that's indigo, that's more lilac", but they're both purple. I mean, I guess there are technically infinite colours, but you group them together into a few big ones. A lot of it's kind of arbitrary. I mean, why are navy blue and sky blue both called blue, when pink's an entirely different colour from red? Y'know? I don't know, that's just how it works. </span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: And like colours, some of these powers, they feed into or balance each other. Some really clash, and you just can't put them together. I mean, you *could* see them all as just one thing, I guess, but it would be pretty much meaningless, y'know, like... like trying to describe a... *shirt* by talking about the concept of colour. </span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: O-Of course, with these things it's not a simple spectrum, y'know, it's more like - </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: An infinite amorphous blob of terror bleeding out in every direction at once.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Now you're getting it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Like colours, but if colours hated me. Got it. Christ, I need a cigarette.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Yeah, well, you can wait. Don't know how much longer we have.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Hang on, if *these* entities are all based on our, on our *fear,* the-the-then what, what about the, the rest - </span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: No. There aren't any god-like powers of hope, or love, or indigestion, or whatever. At least not that I've seen. Just fear. I don't know why.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Fine.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So... so, I know a, a few... but what are they, these fourteen?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: _[Recites]_ "Robert Smirke divided the beings into fourteen distinct Powers, each comprising a variety of smaller terrors, some direct and practical, and some more abstract."</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: R-r-right. I know The Eye. Fear of being watched, right?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Being watched, being followed, having your deepest secrets exposed. Needing to know, even if your discoveries might destroy you. The feeling that something, somewhere, is letting you suffer, just so it can watch.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Is... is that me? Is... is that what I do?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: You're the Archivist, you tell me.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Ah...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Ah.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The Spiral is the fear of madness, right? That worry that your world isn't right, th-that your mind is lying to you?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Yeah, pretty much.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And The End is fear of death.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Simple, but always there.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The Stranger is the, the unknown. The uncanny.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: That kind of creeping sense that something's not right. That guy you saw that might be following you, might mean you harm.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Isolation.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Smirke called it The Lonely. The feeling that you're just... alone. Maybe there's no-one else there at all, maybe you just can't connect.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Then there's... burning, the, uh, the Lightless Flame.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: The Desolation. Fear of pain, fear of loss, fear of unthinking or cruel destruction.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Does it... watch over, um, war as, as well? Or is, is that The End?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I mean, I think they both get a lot out of war, but you're thinking of The Slaughter. It's not cruel, exactly, or unstoppable like The End. It's just pure violence, not targeted or premeditated, just... unpredictable violence. And you don't know when, or if it's even coming. Sometimes it's aggressive, like a frenzied killer, but sometimes it's calm, like an army firing shells into a village. The Slaughter's not that common in peace but, well, you know, there's always a war somewhere.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And, and then th-there's, uh... Vertigo. The fear of, the fear of falling.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: The Vast. Vertigo, agoraphobia, the dread of deep water, of our own insignificance before the universe.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And on the other side, claustrophobia?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: The Buried. Small spaces, crushing, you can't breath. You're at the centre of everything, and it all pushes down on you. If the Vast is like losing yourself in too much space, the Buried is being trapped without enough.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Darkness?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: The Dark, yeah. That's an old one, and one of the deepest. I mean, who isn't a little bit afraid of the dark? Of what might be in it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah. And there, um... I think Filth, it's, it's disease, but also insects?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: The Corruption. Ooh, it's a nasty one, that one. Just... disgust. Rot, decay, infection. That feeling of your skin crawling or itching, being touched by something that might burrow inside you. Swarming and hollowing you out. Leaving you full of holes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah. Not spiders, though?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: No. They belong to The Web.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Which is... spiders a-and control. Your, your will not being your own.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Yeah. Being manipulated or puppeted. The worry you're caught in a trap you can't see.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What about meat? How does that work?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Ah, The Flesh?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah, I-I mean, are we really so afraid of being... eaten? Of our bodies being all twisted up, i-i-is that... I mean, some people sure, but... how is it one of the fourteen great fears?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: What? You think people are so special it's only our fear that counts?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Wh - No...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Everything feels afraid sometimes. Sure, maybe it's not as complicated or... existential as our fear, but it's real. And there's, what, twenty billion chickens in the world? A few billion pigs, cows... How many of *them* are dying of old age? All that terror, it has to go somewhere. So it does.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And when something formed out of an animalistic fear of the slaughterhouse reaches out to, to people...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Things get weird. Yeah. It gets mixed all up with human neuroses: bodies, gore, y'know, that nagging worry that deep down we're just electrified meat squeezing air at each other.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Good lord.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I think it's quite new. Only just beginning its, uh, ascendance when Smirke labelled it. Before that there just weren't enough animals for it to be a fear of its own. Back then I think the only animal fear was The Hunt.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The Hunt is also animals?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Yeah. Been a long time since humans had any proper sense of our place on the food chain. I mean, we haven't been 'prey' for, what, thousands of years?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But, I mean, hunting, killing each other. That-That's just how wild animals work. I-I-It's... natural.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: So's death. But we're still afraid of it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I suppose. And again, when an animalistic fear touches a human...</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: You get the Predator's granddad out there.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Considering]_ This is, uh...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, I don't have time. Tell me about the rituals.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Well, they all have one. Most of them, anyway. Takes centuries to build up to a level of power where they can try it, and if they fail, it's back to square one.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Okay, but what do the rituals do?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: They... kind of 'shift' the world, just enough for the Power to come through. Merge with reality. Some say, or well, they guess, that it could bring other entities through with them. I mean, I doubt The Buried would be bringing through The Vast, but you know.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But what does that actually mean. F-For the world? 'Merging with reality'?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Okay, well... You know how I was just talking about the Hunt and the Flesh?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Well, think of it this way: right now all the entities have to act like a hunter, they pick off the weak ones around the edges, the ones that wander too close, and the rest of the time they have to just graze on whatever fear we all passively give away.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And if one of the rituals succeeds?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: The world becomes a factory farm.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Why would anyone want that? I-I mean, there are people, or they used to be people, who are trying to do this. Why?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I dunno. Power, maybe? Or they've just got close enough to their patron or whatever that they also feed on it. I guess maybe some people just have a weird relationship with fear.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And Gertrude wanted to stop them.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: At any cost.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: She worked out they'd all be happening quite close together. She'd already been doing it a while. And the Unknowing was the next on her list. That and the Watcher's Crown.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The what?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Uh, the Rite of the Watcher's Crown. It's what she called the ritual for the Eye. She didn't tell me much about that one, just that she knew how to take care of it. To be honest, when she was going through *this* stuff, that was about the time I thought I had found Leitner, so I wasn't much in the mood to listen.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Leitner?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Yeah. Gertrude reckoned he was alive somewhere.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Said she thought she'd found him. I tracked him down, but it... well, it wasn't him.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Y-You're sure?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: It was just some pathetic old man. Couldn't have been him. He was so scared of me, I just... just let him go.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Are you alright?</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: I think... I think I'm ready to go. I'm done. Hide my page, and when you're out of here, burn it.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Please.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I will. Thank you, Gerard.</span>

<span class="gerard">GERARD: Gerry.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="gerry">GERRY: Gerard was what my mum called me. _[Embarrassed chuckle]_ I always wanted my friends to call me Gerry.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Thank you, Gerry. Uh... I dismiss you.</span>

##### [RELIEVED SIGH AND STATIC]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Alright.</span>

##### [CLOSES BOOK AND CLEARS THROAT]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm ready!</span>

##### [FOOTSTEPS & DOOR OPENS]

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: All done?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... Yeah. I-I think so.</span>

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: I'll get it back in the box.</span>

##### [FOOTSTEPS DEPARTING WITH BOOK]

<span class="julia">JULIA: Did he tell you what you needed?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't - Maybe. He told me... a lot.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Yeah, he does that.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I mean, I-I feel like I knew so most of it, but...</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Hearing it all laid out, right? Like a punch to the gut.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: You need a drink?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah.</span>

##### [FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="julia">JULIA: You find anything about the Stranger? Stopping that... The Unknowing?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, er, I think so. I hope so.</span>

##### [LIQUID SOUNDS]

<span class="julia">JULIA: So, what's our next move?</span>

##### [FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well, mine's a flight back to London. I-I-I think you said that would be a problem for you, you two?</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Yeah. To be honest, if this thing is as soon as you think it's gonna be, and back in England? Well, I'm not sure how much 'elp we can be.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You've already done... so much more than enough.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Yeah well, you brought us Max Mustermann's head. I think we're going to have a lot fun with that. Plus, if you *do* save the world...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I suppose we'll call it even.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: More or less.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Thank you, Julia. I mean it.</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Well, it's just killing monsters really, isn't it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: How about that drink?</span>

##### [CLICK]