---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG114 - #0092204 - Cracked Foundation"
date:           2018-08-15 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Anya Villette, Timothy Stoker, Basira Hussain, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, The Archivist, Elias Bouchard, NotSasha, NotThem, George Icarus, Gertrude Robinson, Jurgen Leitner, Daniel Stoker, Raymond Fielding, Agnes Montague, John Hector, John Hector Lettings, 105 Hill Top Road, Time, Memory, Empty Houses, Empty Buildings, Kitchens, Basements, Pits, Cracks, Trees, Cold, Dim Lights, Darkness, Friends, Work, Cleaning, Dust, Coffee Shops, Foreboding, Family, Brothers, Siblings, Grief, Revenge, Tape Recorders, Graverobbing, Corpse Mutilation, Mutilation, Taxidermy, Skin, Explosives, The Unknowing, The Rituals, Arachnophobia, Scopophobia, Xenophobia, The Web, The Eye, The Stranger]
statement_of:   [Anya Villette]
recorder:       [The Archivist]
voiced:         [The Archivist, Timothy Stoker, Basira Hussain, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner]
episode_title:  Cracked Foundation
episode_number: '114'
case_number:    '0092204'
statement_date: 2009-04-22
recording_date: 
event_date:     2009-04-23
summary:        "Statement of Anya Villette, regarding a cleaning job on Hill Top Road. Original statement given April 22nd, 2009."
content_flags:  [spiders, mental instability, language, body horror, unreality]
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag114-crackedfoundation
pdf:            https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZqovsWRHYBmeiy-L4E5njyoQ9vb15jrC/view?usp=drivesdk
accessible_pdf: https://drive.google.com/file/d/13fewZpMx0KgXm_vnVa8YXjNPaTuyTAr5/view?usp=drivesdk
official:       true
wiki_url:       https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_114:_Cracked_Foundation
---

##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement of Anya Villette, regarding a cleaning job on Hill Top Road. Original statement given April 22nd, 2009. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, London.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement begins.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I don't know this place. They said I should come and talk to you. A few people did. People I thought I knew, but they were different. I should know this place, I think. I used to go to the Tate a lot when I lived in London, and I, I passed the building, but... I don't know you people. Nothing makes sense anymore.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It was meant to be just a quick job. Since the divorce I've been back working as a cleaner, and for the last month or so John Hector Lettings in Oxford have been bringing me in to get student houses ready for next year's occupants. It's not always pleasant work. After all, students are not exactly careful tenants; I've had to spend more than one afternoon scraping and repainting bedroom walls for some soon-to-be-dropout that turned the room into a hotbox. But it pays the bills. Barely.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I guess this is why I was so keen when I got the call about Hill Top Road. A nice, simple job. No pulling out instant noodles from behind the oven. No post-grad party gunk to find behind the sofa. Just a newly built house that needed a good clean once the builders were finished. Hoover up some plaster dust, wipe down the counters, a bit of polish on the metal fittings... easy. If there were already beds in there, maybe I'd grab a quick nap, make up for all the unpaid overtime I'd had to put in steam cleaning the last house where some of them had made *active* use of the bedroom. All told I thought it was the break I'd earned, and not a moment too soon.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It was raining when I pulled into the house. Not heavy, but the sky was that soggy grey that lets you know the weather isn't changing anytime soon. As a rule I don't mind the rain too much, but there was nothing relaxing about this weather. No regular thump of droplets tapping on bin lids or windscreens; you just ended up damp and grumpy. I've been thinking back, trying to remember if I got any kind of... *sense* about that house. Whether the windows were darker than they should have been, or if the frame of the place was... *heavier.* I don't know. Hard to tell, I was too busy trying to manoeuvre the keys without having to put my bag down on the waterlogged path. It wasn't until I actually got through the door that anything seemed to be at all wrong.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Even then it was only small things. Easy to ignore. I'm not superstitious, never used to be at least, so how dim the lights were made me think the owners were cheap; maybe they'd decided to go all-in on those weak energy-saving bulbs. The cold? I just thought it was an empty house that hadn't turned the heating on yet. The small movements of the dust covers... that was the first thing that actually caught my attention.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The owners of the house had already filled it with furniture. Not *good* furniture, of course: just the cheapest IKEA had that wouldn't collapse under the weight of a textbook. It was all assembled, though, and... covered with thick sheets of white plastic, to try and keep the dust off. Not a strange sight in my line of work, so I just ignored it, and headed down to the kitchen to start wiping down the surfaces.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I don't know why I always like to start in the kitchen; it sort of feels like the heart of a home, at least to me, and I like to begin there and work outwards. Or maybe I just like food, and by the time I start on a job, I'm usually already hungry for lunch. That said, the sort of houses I usually clean, I'm more likely to lose that appetite when I stumble on something in the kitchen. This one was already almost pristine, though. A bit of dust on the surfaces, some careless flecks of paint was the worst I had to contend with. Even the oven was spotless and new.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): But as I was wiping down the sink, I sort of zoned out. The window in the kitchen looked out over the garden, and... I froze as I noticed that in the centre, there was a tree. It was still bare from the winter, and from the top of it, there were these eight thick branches, just stretching out at all angles, some... reaching up to the sky, and some... it felt like they were reaching towards me. It was almost black against the dark grey sky, and the rain made it *shine.* My mouth was dry, and I suddenly had this... *vision* in my head, of walking out the back door, and standing at the base of that tree, as those branches bent, and snapped, and came down to grab me. But I was in the kitchen, and I was still dry. I finished up quickly, and headed off to do the rest of the house.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I tried to ignore it, just told myself I was having a weird bit of paranoia. Getting myself worked up over nothing. I don't believe in ghosts, you know, and even if I *did,* it was a new house. It's not like anyone's building over ancient burial grounds in East Oxford. But even then I was finding it hard to ignore the movements. Slight rustles in the dust sheets that covered the furniture. Shadows they made that didn't... quite *work* with the shape they should be. Or this lump or angle, sometimes, so I'd wonder if they were just covering chairs. Whenever I turned around I swear I heard them shift, and when I looked back, I can't be sure, but I think they would be different, covering something different. I never got the nerve up to take any of them off, though. I just pressed on, tried to get the place clean and finished as quick as I could. Living room, bathroom, upstairs bedrooms... it was almost getting dark by the time I was finished.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It was such a relief as I started to pack up my bag, and I was just about to zip it closed when I remembered the cupboard under the stairs. It hadn't been included in the job list, but in most houses I cleaned I liked to give the storage spaces a bit of a tidy and a vacuum as well. It always brought up by my employers as 'evidence of my thoroughness', and I took a lot of pride in it. But in my hurry to be finished and out of Hill Top Road, I hadn't even checked it. I looked at the small door, then back to my half-zipped bag, and... I decided to just take a quick look. Just a quick look. It was a new house. How dirty could it be?</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Obviously it was my decision. I remember the little handle was *warm.* I don't know if that's jut my memory playing tricks on me, but I do remember that. It opened to reveal stairs going down into a basement. Nobody had mentioned a basement. Not when they gave me the job, not on the floor plan they'd given me; I'd had absolutely no idea it was there. I found my legs were shaking as my brain pushed forward one question over and over: do they expect me to clean down there?</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I decided, again, just to have a look. Just a quick look. See if there was anything down there that did need my attention. Maybe it was already spotless, or maybe it hadn't been tanked, and was still just bare brick and stone, too raw for me to do anything with anyway. I just had to check.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It was warmer down there, warmer every step, and I found myself brushing cobwebs from my face as I got further down, until at last there I was - stood in the cellar of Hill Top Road. There was just a very quick second of relief, of letting my breath out. I saw how damp it was, full of unfinished brickwork, definitely not something any estate agent would expect me to clean. And then I noticed the crack.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It seemed to split the floor right down the middle; it was jagged, vicious, like something had torn out the ground with a hook. It was maybe a foot across at its widest, and so dark inside it made my teeth ache. I'm not sure how I saw it. Thinking now I know that there wasn't any light down there, but... that horrid gap was clear as day, darker than just the simple lack of light that surrounded it. And then I was at the edge looking down, and those eight spindly arms reaching up to pull me in. I couldn't have screamed even if I wanted to.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I woke up in one of the chairs, the dust cover clinging to me like a cocoon. I threw it off, and ran out of that house, and I haven't been back. But now... everything's wrong. I went to clean that house on April the 23rd, 2009 which, according to all of you, is tomorrow. But it **can't** be. That was two weeks ago. I've tried to talk to my friends about it. Those of my friends I can find, but they seem distant, like they don't really know me. Everything is just... *wrong.* I can't find my favourite coffee shop. And I don't know who you people are.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement ends.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Interesting. I'm not really sure what to do with this one. Martin brought it up, said he'd found one that related back to Hill Top Road, a thread that's been nagging at me for a while, but... I mean, it seems straightforward enough, except... that it never happened. As far as I can tell, Anya Villette doesn't exist. John Hector Lettings *does* seem to be a real estate agents in Oxford, but according to our enquiries they've never employed anyone by that name to work as a cleaner, nor are they currently responsible for the infamous house.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Basira found a couple of possibilities online that might have been her, but the two that almost matched, both professed complete ignorance to any of this. As far as we can tell, the house has no estate agent looking after it, and no current owner. Certainly no plans to lease it students. I've half a mind to just go down and have a look at it myself, but... I don't know. Ever since it first came up I've felt like it would be... just a very *bad* idea.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: We've been trying to get a closer look at the documents, figure out who technically owns the place, but... it's been over year, and we're still waiting. Haven't really had the time to foll - </span>

##### [FAINT METALLIC NOISES]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Ah...</span>

##### [THE ARCHIVIST TAKES A DEEP BREATH]

##### [SOUND OF WOODEN BOARD BEING MOVED ASIDE]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Hello, Tim.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Oh god...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Come in, please.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Sigh, then faux polite]_ Good to see you, Boss.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: How've you been?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm not going to lie to you, Tim. It's been a difficult few months.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Deadpan]_ Good.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And h - I would like to hear how *you've* been doing.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Me? Oh, I've been just **fine**. I'll see you later.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You're sure? You've not - There is nothing you want to say to me.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Nothing with that **thing** here, no.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Softly]_ Interesting.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What do you think is listening?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: What?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Strongly]_ What do you think is listening to the tapes?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: **Don't** do that.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sorry.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Don't!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sorry, I didn't-</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: And you **know** what I think. It's that... the thing that runs the Institute. "The Watcher" or "The Eye" or whatever.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I dis... I disagree. This whole place is a temple to The Eye, Tim. I don't think the tape recorders make any difference.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Viciously]_ Elias, then.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: In that case we'll stick to talking about things he already knows.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Why are you **so** set on having it running?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Look, if you want my honest opinion - </span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I don't.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Whatever is on the other side of those tapes is just as invested in stopping the Circus as **you** are in avenging your brother.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: ...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: You listened to it, then? My statement.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I listened to all the tapes. I, I had no idea how much of a... a mess I left this place in, I-I-I'm sorry.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Bit of an invasion of privacy.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I assume that's a joke?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Bitter laugh]_ Isn't it just?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: ...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: How did you know I was going to be here?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Th-The others haven't seen you in weeks, and you've still been using the computers here, accessing files and books... I know there are some exits to the tunnels outside the Institute, so I guessed you were using them to get in and out, avoiding any... tape recorders.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Okay, whatever. But how did you know I was going to be **here**, now?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I just... did.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: "You just did"? Great. Buy one spooky telepath manager, get one free, is it? Fan-tastic.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: That's not what this is.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Angry]_ Oh, and how about you read my mind *now?*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Tim, that isn't... I can't.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: 'Cause I can give you a clue. It ends in "off".</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... I assume you've been doing your own research into the Circus and the Unknowing. I would **like** to pool our knowledge.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: So why don't you 'Archivist' me, then? Just pull it straight out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Because I don't want to. I am **not** your enemy, Tim.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Dismissively]_ Like that matters. These things **aren't human**. It's... *instinct.* You can't *not.*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Softly]_ I'm still me, Tim.</span>

##### [TIM HUFFS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm still me.</span>

##### [TIM EXHALES DEEPLY]

<span class="tim">TIM: ...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: You know what? You're actually right.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: You're the only one.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I- S-Sorry, I do-don't follow.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Tim?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Do you know why I avoid the others?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh, y-you said, the tapes...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: No. How can I be *sure* who they are?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (BACKGROUND): Oh...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: You know how long that *thing* pretended to be Sasha?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (BACKGROUND): Oh god.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: And I had **no** idea? I knew Sasha for years, we...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I don't know Martin as well as I knew her. I barely know what Melanie and Basira *look* like. Or that weird murder-cop. How the hell am I supposed to be sure of any of them?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Softly]_ Tim, I... I didn't realise. I-I didn't think.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm sorry.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I mean, there's worms and hallways and clowns, and... In some ways it doesn't even register. Like, just another spook. But I can't *trust* them. I'm going to destroy the Circus that took my brother, and I can't trust them to help.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And me?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Snorts]_ Well, if you're trying to spy on us, you're doing a pretty shitty job. You haven't been here for months.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: That's not fair! Sometimes I was kidnapped.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Which is not a good look for a spy, is it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Fine.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Anyway, you're a spook too now, aren't you? This place loves you too much to let *you* get swapped.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What about Elias? Surely he's the same?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Oh, yeah. Great idea. _[Sarcastically]_ Let's just all trust Elias.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Point taken.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Sigh]_ Screw it.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: ...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I know where they're doing it. Th-The ritual. And I think they're almost ready.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: R-right. Where?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: In the House of Wax, in Great Yarmouth.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Ohhh... I thought it might be there, but th-the others, we, we couldn't find any evidence of, of movement or, well, life.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I had to wait almost two weeks. But it's there.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Why do you think they're doing it so soon?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Skin. That's what they need right? They tried to take yours.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Well, last week they went on a couple of field trips to a pair of cemeteries.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Who did they take?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: New graves. No flowers. The first had a name on, no dates, no inscription. "George Icarus".</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, I don't know the name. Who was the other?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Tim?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Gertrude.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Softly]_ What?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Yeah.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I-I... I thought she was cremated?!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I guess not.</span>

##### [THE ARCHIVIST EXHALES DEEPLY]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So they did get an Archivist's skin after all.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Snidely]_ So, what's the plan, Boss?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Heh. I, er... I think you're going to like it, actually.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Unconvinced]_ Oh yeah?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Should be quite... *cathartic.* I just need to... confirm a few details.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Fine. But you **don't** cut me out!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I won't.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: I -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I promise!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Now, um, if you'll excuse me.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Oh, er... er, right.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes, well, you're not the only one that knows his way around the tunnels, so...</span>

##### [CLICK]

------

##### [CLICK]

##### [DOWN IN THE TUNNELS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Sotto voce]_ Thirteen, fourteen, fifteen. Sixteen.</span>

##### [WHISTLES]

##### [FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: All clear?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Surprised]_ Uh, yes. Yes! Uh, all clear.</span>

##### [MORE FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Sorry, got a bit lost. Don't know how you find your way around down here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Practice.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You alright, Daisy?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: ##### [NONCOMMITAL SOUNDS]</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Don't think either of us like it down here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh, well, no, me neither. Feels...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Empty.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: That it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Smilingly]_ Yes!</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: How long have you had that shirt?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Um...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: That shirt. You get it in China?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh, A-America. I had to borrow it, there was... there was blood.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Sure.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Why?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Hmm.</span>

##### [CONFUSED SOUNDS FROM THE ARCHIVIST]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Shall I...</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: I'll leave you two alone. I... need to... have that chat with Elias.</span>

##### [DEPARTING FOOTSTEPS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. Right.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So... how've you been?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[Emotionless]_ Fine. Killing mannequins for Elias. And a clown. It's been alright.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Has he... said anything about the plan?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: No. Is there one?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Umm... Sort of.</span>

##### [SOUND OF CASE BEING UNLOCKED]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[Incredulous]_ Ohhh. That real?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You tell me.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[Excitedly]_ Where'd you get this?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: G-Gertrude left it. Er, apparently for, er, this exact situation.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Where did she get it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I find myself asking that question a lot.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: So... this ritual, you're just going to blow it up?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I mean, as long as you know how to... I mean, you can use this stuff?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _[Contentedly]_ Yeah. I reckon I can.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Good.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: So, do you have a plan?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Um... We're working on it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You think she's found him by now?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Maybe. Maybe he's not watching anyway.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I just... I feel safer if I think he's distracted. Is the... the rest of it...?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yeah.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And Martin... he's okay with it?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: It was his idea.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah. You think it'll work?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: No idea. If you can get me or Basira the - _[tails off frustratedly]_</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Tape!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, yeah.</span>

##### [CLICK]