---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG118 - #0170608-A/B - The Masquerade"
date:            2018-09-12 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Martin Blackwood, Elias Bouchard, The Archivist, Timothy Stoker, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Basira Hussain, Nikola Orsinov, The Choir, The Anglerfish, Ivo Lensik, Harold Silvana, Dylan Anderson, Benjamin Hatendi, Albrecht von Closen, Skin, Mutilation, Dismemberment, Explosives, Music, Singing, Parents, Mothers, Fathers, Sons, Legacies, Manipulation, Consent, Burning Things, Doors, Keys, Traps, The Unknowing, The Rituals, Xenophobia, Scopophobia, The Stranger, The Eye]
voiced:          [Martin Blackwood, Elias Bouchard, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, The Archivist, Timothy Stoker, Basira Hussain, Melanie King, Nikola Orsinov]
statement_of:    [Various]
recorder:        [Direct, Various]
episode_title:   The Masquerade
episode_number:  '118'
case_number:     '0170608-A/B'
statement_date:  2017-08-06
recording_date:  2017-08-06
event_date:      2017-08-06
summary:         "Original recordings of Magnus Institute visit to the House of Wax, Great Yarmouth, and an internal management dispute."
content_flags:   [body horror, emotional cruelty, gun violence, abandonment, supernatural torture]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag118-themasquerade
pdf:             https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hK5H1LGUVxarJHOkVxOdQEUqcALXWSEQ/view?usp=sharing
accessible_pdf:  
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iNrL5_2j8bY_S4ZB6jfJDZfwWWfFE6hP5oLgSwQ3xeo/edit?usp=sharing
official:        false
unofficial:      https://tmatranscripts.tumblr.com/post/182633017311/mag118themasquerade-1pdf
unofficial_name: tmatranscripts.tumblr.com
wiki_url:        https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_118:_The_Masquerade
---

##### [INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Are you listening?</span>

##### [He takes a deep breath.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Good.</span>

##### [We hear him flip through some files.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Case, uhh, 0071304. Statement of Ivo Lensik.</span>

##### [He breathes out again, then flicks open a lighter.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(your loss)_ Alright.</span>

##### [He sets the statement alight and lets out a long breath.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Statement ends, I guess. Um...</span>

##### [He looks through some more statements.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Harold Silvana. 002040*6*.  You'll probably do.</span>

##### [He lights this statement aflame too. There's a clear glee in his voice as he continues; what's up with that?]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: All right then. 01*4*0207. Dylan Anderson. Yeah? _(pause)_ Okay.</span>

##### [He sets it on fire.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(sing-song)_ There's plenty more on the pile...</span>

##### [There's a sharp knock-knock-knock at the door. It's Elias, and he doesn't sound happy.]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Martin. Martin, open the door.</span>

##### [He jiggles the doorknob in a fruitless attempt to open it.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Sorry, Elias. I can't hear you. There's - a door in the way.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Martin, I do not have time for this.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Then maybe you should *make* time.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Unlock the door. Now.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I thought you had a key.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: *Martin.*</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I'm not going anywhere.</span>

##### [Elias knocks once more against the door in frustration, then stalks off, presumably to get the key.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I would hurry, though, if I were you.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


------


##### [INT. WAXWORKS]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [There's a low, almost windy sort of constant background noise. Everyone (Jon, Daisy, Basira, Tim)'s voices echo a little more than usual.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Come *on*.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right.</span>

##### [He makes a sound of extreme disgust - it almost sounds like he's straining with something.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Shut. Up. It's just cobwebs.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: There's no such thing as *just* cobwebs.</span>

##### [Everyone around him sighs. Their sighs are weary, as if they've heard this, or some variation thereof, before.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't like it.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Tough. Is this it?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah. We plant the last of it here, and this place will go up nice.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What's the range on the detonator?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Same as the last time you asked.</span>

##### [In the background we can hear the sound of Daisy unzipping the explosives bag.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Where is everybody?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Preparing, I - I guess. Haven't seen any of them since the last of, uh, whatever the hell that was went inside.</span>

##### [Rustling sounds.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: It's too quiet.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It could be a trap.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: And? If it is, I give this a squeeze, no more trap.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: And no more us.</span>

##### [Daisy makes a noncommittal noise.]

<span class="tim">TIM: _[Don't fret]_ it. And anyways, it's not like we're alone in here. _(Laughs)_ Look. There's Prince Charles.</span>

##### [Everyone groans.]

<span class="tim">TIM : Oh, if he'd been in an accident. Or, the Beatles! If they'd all been in separate accidents, like, like Ringo -</span>

##### [Basira(?) sighs.]

<span class="tim">TIM : \- was in a horrible fire, or Paul was in a car crash, that's a classic -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes, Tim. I remember them. The waxworks are... bad. _(A mechanical sound begins)_ Just keep an eye on them.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: If they start... moving, hit them with an axe.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Sure.</span>

##### [Pause.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Jon...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: When you were, um, kidnapped, did you leave a tape recorder here?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What? I don't - I don't think so, why? Is there -</span>

##### [Silence as eyes go to the tape recorder.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: For god's sake.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So where did it come from?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Not important right now.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Jon, it's - d -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes, I'm *aware.*</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


------


##### [INT. ARCHIVES]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [Rustling of papers. A crackling begins as Martin lights another statement on fire.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Hello?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: *What* are you doing.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: That one, that one was Benjamin Hatendi. You weren't fast enough with the key!</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: What. Are. You. Doing.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, I'm sorry, can you not just *look* into my head? Read my mind?</span>

##### [The fire crackles.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What's wrong? Too busy trying to keep an eye on everything?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Tell me what you're doing, and *why.*</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I just thought I'd, you know, drop a couple of ideas in the old suggestion box.</span>

##### [He picks up another statement.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Turns out my suggestion is...</span>

##### [He sets it alight.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Fire.</span>

##### [Elias sighs in a way that sounds like he's trying to keep himself from saying or doing something.]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: And yet you haven't set the whole Archives alight. So I assume this is... what's it called. A cry for attention.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Maybe I just thought it might hurt.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: No more than you're hurting yourself by acting out.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, so that's it, isn't it. Martin's just acting out. I mean, Daisy's a "rabid dog," and Melanie's a potential killer, Tim's a - a *rogue element,* but Martin, oh Martin's just acting out. He'll have a cry, and a lie down, and feel much better.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: _(done)_ And if you're trying to convince me otherwise, then you are failing. Now, if you're quite done, I am very busy.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, sorry. Sorry, I'm not - keeping you from the show, am I? Well - well you head back. I'll keep myself busy here. Albrecht von Closen is next, I think.</span>

##### [There may be a quiet '*oh'* in the background here.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: He's quite an old one. Should go up very quickly.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: ##### [Elias takes a deep breath.]</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Did Jon put you up to this?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You think I'm doing this for him?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: No. It's just the sort of half-baked scheme he'd come up with, and I am well aware that you'd do just about anything for him.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(overlapping)_ I would _[unintelligible]_ -</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: _(cutting off)_ And I don't need to read your mind for that one.</span>

##### [Pause.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Do you really -</span>

##### [He cuts himself off, composes himself.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Is it so hard to believe that I hate you as well?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: No. It's just hard to imagine that you would act on it.</span>

##### [Disbelieving laugh from Martin.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You think I'm what - I'm, I'm, I'm, um, blind?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Oh, no. You've made that quite clear.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So what? I don't get to be angry? I don't get to burn things? Just, just run around, making tea, while everyone else gets to actually have feelings?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Please get to the point, Martin.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Maybe there isn't one. Alright? Maybe -</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Maybe you're just wasting my time.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah. Yeah, maybe.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: I see. That puts me in a... difficult position.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Good.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You might want to turn the tape off, Martin.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


------


##### [INT. WAXWORKS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: How much longer?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(through gritted teeth)_ I don't. Know.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The others didn't take this long.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: The others had clear structural weaknesses. This room doesn't.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: How hard can it be to blow up one building? All this... stuff!</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: It *depends*. Lots of other buildings close around it, I was told to be *careful*.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Right. *Fine*.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So would you say this was supposed to be Churchill or Alfred Hitchcock?</span>

##### [Jon lets out a breath.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Jowls like that, could be either. I mean, the _[unintelligible]_ is a bit - *Tim!* Leave it!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: We should know what's going on. How close they are.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: We are *not* ready yet! If you start opening doors and they see you -</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Are you sure it's through there?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, I, I, I'm *pretty* sure. I saw it a few times while I was here, they've knocked through most of the middle, ho-hollowed it out, made a sort of auditorium.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: How big?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't know! Big!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: I mean, it's not a huge building.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I **don't know**. Tonight was my first time seeing it from the outside. At least in the... flesh. I guess it does seem, m, smaller?</span>

##### [Silence.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: You're sure this is the right place?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I *am*. This is definitely where they kept me. Although I don't remember quite this many waxworks.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Alright. I just don't want to get this far and find out we're in a -</span>

##### [She's cut off by a strange music seeming to come from the other side of the door.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: This is the place.</span>

##### [He takes a shaky breath.]

<span class="tim">TIM: We need to see what's going on in there.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Just ignore it. We have a job to do.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Jesus.</span>

<span class="archivist-and-tim">ARCHIVIST &amp; TIM: What?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: It moved.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right, okay, if they're starting to, ah, We've got to go.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: No, like - it was just- it's just a flicker in his eyes. Look at it -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Don't - Look, if the waxworks are coming alive, we *need* to go.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Just shut up and look.</span>

##### [Silence but for the background melody as they do.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Huh.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh god... Oh god, they're not waxworks.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: What do you - Christ.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Tim, I - I think - I think maybe we had better see what's going on in there.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Alright. Alright. On three. _(pause)_ Three.</span>

##### [They open the door. The music grows louder.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh...</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Holy -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes. I suppose it is.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Done.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, um. I think we might need all of it, Daisy. This place is, uh, it's bigger than we thought.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Roger that. Give me a couple of minutes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: S-s-sooner would be better.</span>

##### [He starts breathing faster.]

<span class="tim">TIM: What is it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Fear fuels everything, of course they need it, for a g-grand ritual...</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: What the hell is that thing? What's it doing to them?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, I think - I used to call it The Anglerfish. It's - I knew it took the skin, used it to coat people made of sawdust and stuffing, but now - I suppose I thought it just *ate* the rest. But no. It had a museum to fill with waxworks. And I guess you don't need skin to sing. _(shaky breath)_ To join the choir.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


------


##### [INT. ARCHIVES]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Hm. Sorry. Looks like it wants to know what's going on.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Hm. A pity. You know Jon listens to all of them.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What, you don't want him hearing your big evil speech?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Just wanted to spare you the small amount of dignity you have left.</span>

##### [Martin laughs, but it's mirthless.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: *Dignity?* Right, yeah. Like the dignity of being trapped in your flat by *worms*, or sleeping in the Archives clutching a corkscrew, or, or fetching drinks for the *thing* that murdered your friend without you even noticing. Laughing, at all their little jokes, then being led to wander impossible corridors for *weeks.*</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: _(sighing)_ Are you done.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: *Not* even *close.* Because, I - _(composes himself)_ I've been thinking. It's not like you got this all-seeing thing recently. You've had it the whole time. I remember the way you looked at Sasha after the attack. You *knew* it wasn't her. And I reckon you knew Prentiss was lurking under the Institute, too, and you did nothing. Why?</span>

##### [Beat.]

##### [Martin slams his hand down onto the desk.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ***Why?***</span>

##### [Beat.]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Let's just get this over with, shall we?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What, like with Melanie? Just that *perfect* bit of information to leave me a wreck?</span>

##### [Elias takes a breath.]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Yes.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Well, I hope you've got something better than that pathetic dig at my feelings for Jon.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: It's baffling, really. Such loyalty to someone who really treats you very badly.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, is that supposed to be, what, a revelation?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You know, I really should have gone for that. Found something that would finally manage to shatter that precious image you have of him. But, as you say I am *very* busy at the moment. So I suppose I'll have to go with what I had prepared.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Do it.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Your mother. She's always been... difficult, hasn't she. You take care of her for years, feed her, clean up after her, and now, with her condition degrading even further, *she* is the one that asked to be moved into a home.</span>

##### [Martin sucks in a shaky breath.]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: To have it left to the nurses. *She's* the one that refuses your visits.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: She's a-always been -</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Strong-willed?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Stubborn...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: No. No, Martin. You know the reason. Your mother simply hates you. You just don't know why.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: It's not your fault, though I know that isn't any consolation. Just bad luck, really. How old were you when your father left? Eight? Nine? When your mother began to sicken, and he decided he was done with you both. Not old enough to remember him with any great clarity, *especially* when your mother refused to keep any pictures of him. She never recovered from that betrayal. He just tore her heart right out and took it with him.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: The thing is, though, Martin. If you ever *do* want to know *exactly* what your father looked like... All you have to do is look in a mirror.</span>

##### [Martin's breathing grows louder and shakier. There's a vague static in the background, still.]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: The resemblance is quite uncanny. The face of the man she hates, who destroyed her life, watching over her. Feeding her. Cleaning her. Looking down on her with such pity.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(tearful)_ Shut. Up.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: You want to know what she sees when she looks at you?</span>

##### [Both Martin's sobs and the static grow louder; Elias is transmitting the memories and images straight into his mind.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(through sobs)_ Oh god...</span>

##### [He continues crying as the static keeps going.]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: _(hissing)_ *Don't burn any more statements.*</span>

##### [Elias leaves, closing the door to the office behind him as Martin continues sobbing. He's doing his best to compose himself, and he manages to do so just enough before the door opens again and Melanie comes in.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Did you find anything?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Uh, yes, I found -</span>

##### [She finally looks up and sees the state Martin's in.]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Jesus. Are you okay?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Do we have what we need?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I think so, yes. He didn't even have a safe, just a few locked drawers. It was - it was easy.</span>

##### [Martin takes a shaky breath.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: We need to leave.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: We need to kill him. Look at you. He needs to **die**.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No. No, I - I knew what this was gonna be.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: It's not just for *you!* If we leave him alive -</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Melanie. Melanie, please.</span>

##### [Beat.]

##### [Melanie sighs.]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Alright. Let's get these somewhere safe.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


------


##### [INT. WAXWORKS]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So what do we do?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: We *can't* help them.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: So, what, we're just going to *leave them* to be *skinned alive*?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(overlapping)_ [And] what do you want me to do?!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Well, you brought me in as a distraction, right?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Let me do it. Go in, maybe you can get some of them -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Tim, contrary to what you think, I did *not* bring you here to indulge your *death wish*.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: That's not what this is.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No?</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: No! You *knew* I might not be coming back -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I knew *none* of us might be coming back, and I'm not going to let anyone get killed for nothing!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Well, except for those people in there.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: They're already dead!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Not all of them.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(sudden yell, followed by immediate realization of need to whisper)_ I am **not** losing you as well!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _[unintelligible, overlapping]_... Look. Whatever we're going to do, we need to figure it out. Now.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: *Fine.*</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: *Look*. Jon, I -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Done.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: It's all ready. Here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh. I - I thought you would want to, uh, do the honors.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: It's safer with you. *You* know when it needs to happen.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. Okay, um, c-come on, then. Let's *go*. _(pause)_ Tim, come on.</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: This isn't right.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: At least it'll be quick.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Tim, *please*. We have to go -</span>

##### [The door creaks open. The music is louder, now.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Get back.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Behind me.</span>

##### [A new static begins.]

<span class="nikola">NIKOLA: _(over speaker)_ Will the audience please take their positions?</span>

##### [The static grows in intensity.]

<span class="nikola">NIKOLA: The show... has begun.</span>

<span class="archives-team">ARCHIVES TEAM: AAAAH.</span>

##### [The static grows louder. In the background, the circus music intensifies, with a proper melody and beat finally recognizable. Amidst it all is the Archivist's breathing, loud and isolated against the background frenzy.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Jesus...</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Get the hell away from me!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: Where's - no!</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Don't move -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Daisy! Daisy, i-it's me!</span>

<span class="tim">TIM: **No!**</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I said, don't move.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Daisy!</span>

##### [Something is slammed, or hit.]

##### [The circus music continues for a few seconds before fading out into the Magnus Archives theme.]