---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG120 - #0170908 - Eye Contact"
date:           2018-09-26 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Unfinished, Elias Bouchard, The Archivist, Martin Blackwood, Peter Lukas, Police, Lukas Family, Dreams, Nightmares, Sleep, Hospitals, Medical, Scopophobia, The Eye]
statement_of:   [Elias Bouchard]
recorder:       [Elias Bouchard]
voiced:         [Elias Bouchard, Martin Blackwood, Police Officer, Peter Lukas]
episode_title:  Eye Contact
episode_number: '120'
case_number:    '0170908'
statement_date: 2017-08-09
recording_date: 2017-08-09
event_date:     
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag120-eyecontact
pdf:            
accessible_pdf: 
google_doc:     
official:        false
unofficial:      'https://snarp.tumblr.com/'
unofficial_name: snarp
unfinished:      true
---

#### ELIAS

Statement of Elias Bouchard, regarding the dreams of Jonathan Sims, Head Archivist of the Magnus Institute, currently unresponsive. Details pulled directly from subject.

Statement begins.

#### ELIAS (STATEMENT)

the Archivist does not know where he is, and in many ways that is correct, for to say that he was anywhere would be an error.

He has no conception of his body, lying on that gray hospital bed perplexing the doctors. Heart unbeating, lungs unmoving, but mind and nerves alive and firing wildly - everything but brain-dead.

But he is where he exists so often when his eyes are closed. He wanders the dreams he was given.

A cold and well-cleaned room, sterile metal tables that overflow with a gentle trickle of blood. The hearts that beat upon them spasm and spurt without any sort of rhythm. And were they to stand still for but a moment, it might become clear just how wrong they are in their construction.

There are no strange figures standing over those tables, no mockeries of earnest learning. But in the center stands a weeping, bearded man in a lab coat. In his thin vinyl gloved hands he holds an apple 

that he dearly wishes otherwise

The doctor cannot bring himself to look at the tables, so instead looks to the Archivist, whose eye watches him, and cannot close. He tries to scream, to curse at the Archivist, pleading to him for peace, for rest.

The Archivist watches as the blood creeps along the tiled floor 

and pools at the doctors feet.

Desperate, he tries to throw the apple at his observer, but it is too late. The doctor has forgotten how the elbows work, and wrenches it to the side with a sickening crack. He tries again to scream, but he hasn't got the throat right, and the wheezing, half-choked gurgle that escapes would stir pity in the Archivist if he had not heard it so many times before.

The Archivist waits, expecting to awaken, but there is nowhere for him to awaken to. No avenue of escape from these dreams.

He turns to see the familiar screen, the familiar woman beneath it. She looks up at him with an expression of recognition, 

and we read

read 

she types and types and types, her fingers a blur, flying across the keyboard, and yet never fast enough to outrun the relentless words that flow like dark water across 

the screen that stretches off into the sky.

It hurts. She is shaking her head, defiant in her well-worn terror, and tries with every corner of her will to force back the rolling tide of words. It hurts. 

Her fingers are still, her hands raised to

her mind trying to think, trying to comprehend.

It hurts.

She turns to stare at the Archivist. There is hatred in her eyes, and blame, an aching certainty that she is here because of him. He has brought her here.

He watches as she slowly brings the keyboard up to her lips, fighting against it every moment. She bites down shards of plastic, cutting her fingers as the words scroll unfettered across the screen for miles and miles and miles. And she is gone. 

The Archivist wanders. He is searching, though for what he does not know. He passes those places he can no longer watch - the silent wards of peeling skin, the empty warehouse of thick darkness and frightened children, the rusted train car that smells of eager, infectious hate. 

All through it, the shadow is above him, the shape that gazes down upon him, bloodshot and unblinking.

The rain is still there, though it is empty; the long and desolate road, slick with the downpour, 

a police car's lights flashing over the unmoving van.

The doors are open, and the too-familiar statue stand either side of the well-worn wooden box.

He looks around, his eyes scanning this forever road 

and the clouds of iron gray, looking for her, but she is not there.

The Archivist expects, he hopes to find the violence in her looking back at him, hungry for pursuit and murder, but the emptiness of the place is complete, the only sounds the gentle singing of the box and the pounding, bitter rain.

He knows the writing on the coffin has changed, though 

does still carve deep into the splintered wood 

I am for you. 

He knows it is not addressed to him, but he reaches down and pulls the chains off all the same. It opens, and he walks slowly down the steps into the earth. 

But even as it closes above him, the great shadow still sees him.

There is nowhere in this universe that it would not blot out the sky.

The rough-hewn tunnels go down, down beyond anything but sodden earth and despair, until the Archivist arrives at the tunnels. Here he sees the train twisted and pressed in on all sides, nothing but shrieking metal and cracked glass. He climbs inside and takes his seat, mouth tasting of mud and soil. his eyes moving through the dust and grit unblinking.

The passenger is there, though she is, as always, stationary. Dry dirt trickles between her teeth as she smiles mirthlessly, seeing the Archivist has returned. She is relaxed, suspended from a dozen broken handrails and shattered jagged seats. They cut her flesh, but she does not bleed. There is no pain in her eyes. There is nothing except the certainty of her fate.

The train begins to move, the wheels screaming with the awful weight of it, every part buckling and pressing in, but the Archivist is not afraid. His only fear is that even here, at the center of the world, barreling towards a lightless, infinite tomb, still he will be watched.

Still he will watch.

The expression on the passengers face does not change even as the contorting metal crushes her skull like an egg. As she vanishes from view, he catches a glimpse of an advert above his seat: "Dig."

There is a door in front of him, a yellow door. He knows the dream it used to lead to; he knows it well. But that's not where it leads anymore. He does not know what is behind it anymore, and he is deathly afraid of finding out.

The Archivist turns away. Behind him are the ants. They move like a terrible rolling wave along the hard-packed ground, and he can see every twitching antenna, every clenching mandible. Somewhere underneath that twitching, burrowing mass is the exterminator. He is screaming. The Archivist knows he is, screaming can see him screaming, although the sound is lost under the noise of those hundred million ants, that crawl and scurry over everything.

For a second, a hand breaches the shifting mound, desperately stretched towards the Archivist in supplication. Pleading for help. The Archivist watches as it disappears painfully back into that sea of scrabbling life.

Then all at once the ants are gone, fled in a moment away from the still-shuddering form of the exterminator, and a familiar terror finally pushes its way into the Archivist's heart.

Before him rises an incinerator door, the glowing light of the flames curling around the cracks with a wailing shriek. The door opens and the burning silhouette that stands within is ingrained upon the Archivist's racing mind.

They smoke and sizzle, but still the worms crawl through her charred and pockmarked flesh, her now-singed red dress shifting with the movement beneath it.

The exterminator looks to her, then to the Archivist, and it is not certain which he fears more.

The Archivist, for his part, is hopelessly willing the dream to stop, 

but as she takes one scorched step after another, it is clear that he has no power to make it.

When faced with her, he even longs for the terrible dream of the melted woman, who would see everything desolated without rhyme or reason.

But she was beyond his reach the moment she knew he was there, so the Archivist can only stand and stare as the hive goes about its infested, long-dead work.

The dark building is newer, but he knows it well; knows the two lost souls who creep through it with an alert hunger on their faces. He recognizes that look from the other hunter 

whose dreams he has watched for so long.

They stalk the darkness itself, and hope to catch and kill it before it can do the same to them. They see him watching, but they cannot catch his scent.

At last, he is in the moonlit graveyard, the oldest of the dreams. It is peaceful, cool and damp. As the rolling, boggy fields stretch out in all directions, he hears her calling pathetically from the bottom of the grave.

But by now he knows there is nothing he can do but stare. She begs to be released, to dream of this place no more, but there is nothing he can do. So he watches her, trying in his single-minded focus to ignore the attention of that impossible thing that covers the sky and fixes its gaze on him with such force it would choke him were he breathing.

Another dissection room, another figure standing in its centre, but this one is calm. She simply looks at him sadly, a pity in her face that burns him worse than any flame. More than anything, the Archivist wants to look away to turn his eye from her gentle sadness, from the disappointment in what she sees in him. But he cannot, so he watches her until she simply fades away.

And at last, the Archivist looks up. At last he looks into the eye that sees all and knows all and clutches at the secret terrors of your heart. The Ceaseless Watcher of all that is and all that was, the voracious infinite hunger the tears at his soul, invoking him to discover, to observe to experience all and everything and forever.

It stares into him and it stares out of him, and he is falling into the devouring eternity of its pupil. He wants to cry out in horror, but he cannot.

He is whole.

And still he does not wake. Wandering his slim collection of gifted nightmares, passing the grey and lifeless remains of severed dreams he can no longer watch, he waits. 

But not for long, before they all begin again.

#### ELIAS

You're doing well, John. I only hope you can continue your growth without my guidance.

------

Come in 

hello

inspector 

Martin 

I'm sorry to hear about Tim 

don't 

and Daisy I suppose 

don't you dare

I suppose it's some consolation Basira made it out 

and John more or less 

is this him 

yes 

right 

Elias Bouchard you're under arrest 

on what crime 

take your pick

never had a tape recording of a murder before 

something of a novelty 

and that's not the half of it 

plenty of stuff in those files could easily get you a nasty end if you weren't careful 

no Melanie

I'd have thought she would have wanted to gloat 

no 

you didn't tell her 

worried she might create too much of a scene 

I understand 

I just hope she doesn't hold it against you 

that's 

that's not 

don't worry Mr Blackwood we will take it from here 

I'm sure you will 

however before we proceed I have a flash drive in my shirt pocket 

please ensure it gets the chief inspector Henderson 

it contains various information I think she and the Metropolitan Police would be keen not to have released to the public 

yes 

I was briefed that would probably be the case

can't let you go though 

not with all the evidence kindly provided by your colleagues 

I quite understand 

I would just hate for my case to be too truncated 

not my place to say mr. Bouchard 

I'm just here to get you behind bars 

you and the chief can discuss the rest 

it's better than you deserve

perhaps so 

but I'm glad you were sensible about it 

I was concerned you might have bought into Melanie's fixation 

gave you to us all but wrapped up in a bow 

I must admit I'm impressed Martin 

I knew you were all planning something of course 

but I didn't believe you specifically would have the capacity for boldness that you displayed 

it took me quite by surprise

he didn't just see it in me honestly 

I didn't look 

for all my power I will admit I am not immune to making the occasional lazy assumption 

I presumed that I knew you thoroughly but by the time you demonstrated otherwise well

there was simply too much to keep watching over 

only have two eyes after all 

right are you all done now 

I believe so 

I think we should be fine 

provided you make sure the data reaches the chief inspector 

I'm sure she'll be happy to pick you out a cell personally 

so long as it isn't the morgue I'm sure I'll be perfectly comfortable 

just be careful with him all right he can see things put thoughts and stuff into your head 

like I said I've been briefed and the situation is being monitored 

quite unnecessary I assure you 

just please be careful he's really dangerous 

by all means mr. Bouchard why don't you have a look in my head and see exactly what will happen to you when you mess with me 

there will be no need for that inspector 

I'm sure we'll get along famously 

good

best of luck Martin 

let the others know I shall be thinking off them 

come on now

are those really necessary 

not really no

I see 

let's go 

goodbye Martin be seeing you

must be a relief 

honestly I thought there'd be more of a scene 

but he always surprises me 

what 

what are you doing here 

mr. Lukas 

please call me Peter 

no no I think I'm okay 

as you like 

look

don't let Elias get to you 

you did very well

really I honestly think you managed to surprise him 

even if you sooner die than admit it 

I'm sorry I'm I'm still not sure exactly what this is 

oh right of course

well you've successfully managed to remove Elias as the head of the Magnus Institute so 

oh oh god what does that do

oh no no no no no not in any metaphysical sense 

no he's still very much the - how did he insist on phrasing it - yes the beating heart of the Institute 

but practically speaking he can hardly fulfill his more mundane managerial duties from a jail cell 

so he knew this was going to happen

not exactly. he anticipated that you would likely find some way to remove him so he made alternative arrangements

which would be you 

exactly. to be honest with you, Martin, I didn't expect to be taking over the place so soon, or in quite such a state of disarray, but I'll do my best to keep the place afloat 

all right 

oh 

what's that look for 

you one 

I am sorry if it doesn't look quite like you hoped, but here we are 

I suppose so

so what now 

well if you could send Melanie and Basira up to see me, I'd like to introduce myself. After that I'll put through a couple of weeks of paid leave for you all. I think giving everyone some space to try and deal with the loss of Tim and Daisy might do everyone some good. 

oh and if you want to talk to a counselor, the Institute will of course cover any cost 

and 

thanks 

don't mention it. 

I know how it can be with a new boss. I'd like to help you ease into it

is that 

can I go 

of course

Oh, and Elias said you'd probably be keeping a close eye on the Archivist's condition, so I'd be keen to hear any developments.

sure 

marvellous. and don't look so down. I know change can be scary, but eventually it happens just the same. I think we're going to great things Martin. Great things.


------


Season 3 of _The Magnus Archives_ has featured: 

- [Jonathan Sims](https://jonathan-sims.com/) as __The Archivist__

- [Sasha Sienna](https://twitter.com/SiennaSasha) as __Georgie Barker__

- [Fay Roberts](https://www.fayroberts.co.uk/) as __Alice 'Daisy' Tonner__

- [Alexander J. Newall](https://alexanderjnewall.com/) as __Martin Blackwood__

- [Frank Voss](https://twitter.com/AvoidedDrowning) as __Basira Hussain__

- [Mike LeBeau](https://twitter.com/mikey_scamp) as __Tim Stoker__

- [Ben Meredith](http://rustyquill.com/ben-meredith/) as __Elias Bouchard__

- [Lydia Nicholas](https://twitter.com/lydnicholas) as __Melanie King__

- __Sue Sims__ as __Gertrude Robinson__

- __Hannah Walker__ as __Jude Perry__

- [Guy Kelly](http://brainmage.co.uk/) as __Michael Crew__

- [Jessica Law](https://twitter.com/jessicathelaw) as __Nikola Orsinov__

- __Alice Adzowa__ as __Sarah Baldwin__

- __Luke Booys__ as __The Distortion__

- __Imogen Harris__ as __Helen Richardson__

- __Steven Violich__ as __Kurt Anderson and Hope__

- __Martin Corcoran__ as __Breekon__

- __Peng Wei__ as __Xiaoling__

- [Brock Winstead](https://twitter.com/brockwinstead) as __Max Mustermann__

- [Francesca Renèe Reid](https://twitter.com/francescarenee3) as __Julia Montauk__

- [Ian Hayles](http://rustyquill.com/ian-hayles/) as __Trevor Herbert__

- [Jon Gracey](https://twitter.com/JonGracey) as __Gerard Keay__

- __Richard Davies__ as __Police Officer__

- __Paul Sims__ as __Jurgen Leitner__

- [Alasdair Stuart](https://twitter.com/AlasdairStuart) as __Peter Lukas__ 

- [Lowri Ann Davies](https://twitter.com/lowritweets) as __Lynne Hammond__

- [Martyn Pratt](http://rustyquill.com/martyn-pratt/) as __Robin Lennox__

- [James Ross](https://twitter.com/jamesrosscomedy) as __Conspiracy Theorist__

and 

- [Bryn Monroe](http://rustyquill.com/bryn-monroe/) as __Brian Finlinson__
