---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG158 - #0182509-A - Panopticon"
date:            2019-10-17 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Martin Blackwood, Peter Lukas, NotSasha, NotThem, Basira Hussain, The Archivist, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Elias Bouchard, Gertrude Robinson, Trevor Herbert, Julia Montauk, Jonah Magnus, Helen Richardson, Jurgen Leitner, John Ruskin, Police, Millbank Prison, Prisons, Corridors, Labyrinths, Books, The Seven Lamps of Architecture, my_murderer.mp3, Divorce, Scopophobia, Isolophobia, Maniaphobia, The Eye, The Lonely, The Hunt, The Spiral]
statement_of:    [Various]
recorder:        [Various]
voiced:          [Martin Blackwood, Peter Lukas, NotSasha, Basira Hussain, The Archivist, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Elias Bouchard, Gertrude Robinson, Trevor Herbert, Julia Montauk]
episode_title:   Panopticon
episode_number:  '158'
case_number:     '0182509-A'
statement_date:  2018-09-25
recording_date:  2018-09-25
event_date:      2018-09-25
summary:         "Case #0182509-A\nOriginal recording of events leading up to the disappearances of Jonathan Sims, Martin Blackwood, Alice Tonner and Peter Lukas."
content_flags:   [Loud noises (including rock grinding) / static, Violence (gun / monstrous), Extended gunfire, Isolation, Murder / Death / Loss]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag158-panopticon
pdf:             
accessible_pdf:  
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RWEzRJE8lGUokzqJMLtu0SffwKwtaRPVvHqrR71ltQI/edit
official:        false
unofficial:      http://prentissed.tumblr.com/
unofficial_name: prentissed.tumblr.com
wiki_url:        
---

##### [INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE: THE TUNNELS]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON. THE SOUND OF PETER'S STATIC IS AUDIBLE IN THE BACKGROUND ALONG WITH SLOW, HEAVY FOOTSTEPS. MARTIN MAKES AN AGITATED SOUND.]

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: It's fine. Don't particularly like it down here.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(wry chuckle)_ Yeah, well, everyone else seems to these days, so...</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(interrupting)_ I would *really*. Rather not talk about it, Peter.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [A FEW SECONDS OF SILENCE AND FOOTSTEPS.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Are you *sure* about that map? I'm pretty certain the tunnels change.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [RUSTLING]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: That's a Leitner.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And the, um... the blood on it?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(apprehensively)_ ...Riiight.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No, no, I'd really rather you didn't --</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [A FEW SECONDS OF SILENCE AS NOTHING HAPPENS.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(wryly sarcastic)_ Very impressive.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [MORE SILENCE, THEN FAINT FOOTSTEPS.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Peter. Peter, there's a... Peter, I think there's something in there.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [A LOUD, SCRAPING SOUND GROWS IN VOLUME, ALONG WITH AGITATED, INHUMAN NOISES, BEFORE NOT-SASHA ENTERS WITH A DISTORTED SCREAM. IT LETS OUT A FEW RAGGED GASPS.]

<span class="not-sasha">NOT-SASHA: So you finally decided to let me out, Jon? _(calling)_ Jooooon?</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT-SASHA: Who's there?</span>

##### [MARTIN'S TERRIFIED BREATHING CAN BE HEARD.]

<span class="not-sasha">NOT-SASHA: *Who let me out?*</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT-SASHA: Don't be shy... I just want to say thank you.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT-SASHA: ...alright, have it your way. Now if you'll excuse me... I have some unfinished business.</span>

##### [IT LETS OUT A CACKLING LAUGH AS ITS VOICE FADES.]

##### [MARTIN LETS OUT A SHAKY BREATH.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: That- that - that was. Um--</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And it's going to -</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [SEVERAL SECONDS OF SILENCE, MARTIN LETS OUT A RESIGNED INHALE.]

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Gone *how?*</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Just walked, out as far as we can tell.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: A couple of guards on duty vanished too.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(agitated)_ Vanished. *How?!*</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Just left. Best we can tell, he had some dirt on them.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Old friend at the prison let us know.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What, and no one thought of that?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Asshole could have left at any time, but he just sat there laughing at us.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, no, this - this can't be a coincidence.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Coincidence with what?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Martin, or someone, left me a tape. Him and Peter Lukas are looking for something down in the tunnels.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Do you know what?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No. He called it a device.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: When?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I mean, I don't - I mean... n-now? I guess? They could - it can't be a coincidence that this is when Elias chooses to make a break for it.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: You think he's coming here?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You don't?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Let's go.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(sighs)_ I'll get the key.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [MORE CLANGING FOOTSTEPS.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What is this place?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And it's been down here the whole time?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: But there's nothing in the cells.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I don't understand. Why are we here?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And you need me for this?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So that's it. Both Lonely and Watching.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I suppose I am.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Current...</span>

##### [MARTIN SEES SOMETHING AND STOPS.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(tense)_ Who is that?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I'll need to kill him.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [THE SOUND OF ROLLING, SLIDING STONE.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(shaky breath)_ Where are his eyes?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Exactly where they've always been, Martin.</span>

##### [MARTIN LETS OUT A TREMBLING GASP.]

<span class="elias">ELIAS: Watching over *my* Institute.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: And you're sure?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes, I'm sure it wasn't here before!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: It's just that there's a lot of tapes around.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And I don't keep any of them with the *key to the tunnels*. It's been left for me.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: And it says 'play me'. Kind of suspicious.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So Elias left it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Or Martin, or Peter, or Annabelle!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Fine. Whatever. Could be a distraction.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Only one way to find out.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: We don't have time for this.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: We don't know that. We've no idea what sort of time frame we're on. I say play it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: *Thank* you.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [THE SOUND OF SLOSHING LIQUID. A DOOR SWINGS OPEN.]

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Gertrude.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: _(under her breath)_ Damn.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Did you really think I wouldn't notice?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I'd rather hoped you'd still be hampered with all the Dark's business. It's their 'Grand Eclipse' at the moment, isn't it?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): But I think we've both come to the same conclusion about *that*. That's why you're here.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Yes. Shame, really. I used to be able to torch a building in half the time. Age catches us all. _(contemptuously)_ Well, almost all of us, *Elias*.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): You were the one so... *insistent* on staying human.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: And no doubt that makes my death a lot less complicated.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): What exactly were you hoping to achieve here? Why not come at me directly instead of burning everything first?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I was rather hoping the fire would occupy you while I did just that.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): *I see*.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): How long have you known?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: About your body? Not long after you took your new host and we had our little... chat. It wasn't exactly a huge leap to the panopticon after that. The hard part was figuring out how to actually reach it. Took me the better part of a decade.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): So you burn the place down, use it as cover to reach my body, and then we die together. How *poetic*. Doesn't seem like your style at all.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I wasn't actually planning on dying.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): And how exactly were you planning on achieving that while you're still bound to the... ha. Oh, I see. Very clever. _(amused smirk)_ I thought Eric was the only one to figure that little morsel out.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Knowledge has a way of surviving. *You* of all people should know that.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Quite. It was a good plan, actually. If you hadn't been so complacent about me keeping an eye out down here, probably would have worked. _(sarcastic)_ Gertrude's grand retirement.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: It still might.</span>

##### [SOUND OF FLINT AND STEEL]

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Just needs a little spark, and -</span>

##### [A GUN COCKS.]

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I see. So you're finally getting your hands dirty? I must really have caught you off guard.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): I suppose we both got a little complacent. Fifty years is a long time. End of an era.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I'm not really in the mood for nostalgia, Elias. You might have noticed I'm rather busy so either shoot me or -</span>

##### [A GUNSHOT RINGS OUT. GERTRUDE GASPS AND COLLAPSES.]

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: _(gasping)_ Well... there it is. Thought it would hurt more.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS: _(sighs)_ Pity.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Right, so what does that tell us?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Jon? Jon?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Y-yes, sorry, right. Just, uh... uh, the panopticon. It's the, um-</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: The design of Milbank prison, based on an all-seeing watchtower. I know. I *did* the reading.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: You think that's the device?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes. And I'd wager that Elias' body -</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Gotta be Jonah Magnus, right?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'd say so.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _(sigh)_ And he's been body hopping like whatever was in Reynor.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So is he going to help Peter or stop him?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Lukas is planning to take over the panopticon. Can't imagine he wants that to happen.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But Elias put him in charge. That doesn't make any- what... Daisy are you-?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: *Shh!*</span>

##### [HEAVY, UNEVEN FOOTSTEPS. DISTANT FEMALE SCREAMS CAN BE HEARD.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, no.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Stay here, both of you. I'll check it out.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Oh, you needn't worry.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): I couldn't stop you if I wanted to. I just wanted to be here at the end. Can a man not watch his own death?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What, wh- *what*? What? How are you even *here?*</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Well-</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): _(contemptuous)_ Peter.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Both of you just - just shut up. Just give me a second to think.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Come now, Martin. I would have thought you'd *jump* at the chance to kill me.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: That's not... why wouldn't you help against the Extinction?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Because I'm a busy man. It has never been my top priority.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I don't believe you.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): That really doesn't matter, I'm afraid. It's the only answer you're going to get.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: If I...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: If I do kill you, will the others survive?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Come now, Peter, it's a valid question. And you should have addressed it yourself, really.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): The short answer is, *I don't know*, Martin. I guarantee it won't be pleasant for them, but I honestly don't know if their ties to the Institute are quite as strong as I may have implied. You, at least should be insulated from the fallout by your new allegiance. Jon... *might* be powerful enough to weather it. Melanie's well out of it, so that just leaves Basira and Daisy. And the rest of the Institute, of course, and you can't tell me you care about them.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(indignant)_ Wh- of course I do!</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): *Do* you though? Do you really care about any of them? Or is that worrying just simply an old reflex?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Goodness. Peter has done his work well, hasn't he? No, the only choice I think that matters is whether you want to kill me or not.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I do. _(laughs)_ I really, really do.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah. Yeah, I think I would.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [A LONG PAUSE.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No.</span>

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Well?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Looks like two people. An old guy and-</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: A woman with a scar.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, God, now? Why now?!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: It's probably not a coincidence. From what I saw they've been toying with the rest of the Institute, but it won't be long until they're all dead or escaped.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: And then they're coming here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(under his breath)_ Right.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Set up by the door. Try and take them when they break through.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Right.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Do I, uh... do I get a gun?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: You've fired one?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(indignant)_ You never *taught* me!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: You never asked. Besides, we've got problems enough without -</span>

##### [A LOUD CRASH.]

<span class="not-sasha">NOT-SASHA: Hello, Jon.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Oh, *shit.*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You've got to be *fucking* kidding-</span>

##### [LOUD CRASH, GUNSHOTS]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Go!</span>

##### [CLATTERING SOUNDS AS JON RUNS.]

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: Joooooonny boy! _(cackles)_</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: We want to make a statement!</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT-SASHA: Oh, hello! What's happening here? New friends?</span>

##### [GUNSHOTS. NOT-SASHA LAUGHS.]

<span class="not-sasha">NOT-SASHA: *Not* new friends? Even better.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What the hell is that thing?</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Ha! You see that, old man?</span>

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: Talking. They're all monsters in here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You remember what happened to Sasha?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: That's the thing that took her.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It was trapped in the tunnels. It - Martin. Something's happening down there.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: If he's down there with Peter, or Elias... dammit, we need to get down there.</span>

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: _(in the background)_ Come out, come out, wherever you are!</span>

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: _(sniffs)_ Can you smell 'em?</span>

<span class="julia">JULIA: Ugh. Hard to tell over the stink of *that* thing!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: They'll follow us... goddammit. Jon, go, we'll keep them busy.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What? No! I -</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Don't argue. Just go.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT-SASHA: Joooon?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Fine. Just don't die.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Go.</span>

##### [A FEW MOMENTS OF SILENCE AND CLANKING.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: This might be it.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Basira...</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Didn't think it would end like this. _(heh)_ You know what, actually, I think I did.</span>

##### [JULIA LAUGHS MANIACALLY IN THE BACKGROUND]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Basira, promise me something.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: What - no. Daisy, no.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Basira, when this is over, you need to find me. And kill me. Promise me.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: *No*. No, Daisy, we'll figure something out.</span>

<span class="not-sasha">NOT-SASHA: You can't hide forever, Jon...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: These last few months... it was always borrowed time, wasn't it? Can't outrun it forever.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _(desperately)_ Daisy...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Promise me.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: I promise.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Thanks. Now run.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Daisy -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(voice growling, distorted by the Hunt)_ **_Run_**...</span>

##### [QUICK FOOTSTEPS, DAISY SNARLING. JULIA LAUGHS AND COCKS A GUN.].

<span class="julia">JULIA: There you are.</span>

<span class="trevor">TREVOR: All alone.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(snarling)_ Shit!</span>

##### [A GUNSHOT RINGS OUT.]

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I'm... saying no. I refuse. Game over.</span>

##### [THE KNIFE CLATTERS TO THE GROUND.]

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(laugh)_ You know, I think that was actually the problem. You made the stakes too high. All the little details that didn't add up... it made them more obvious. Exaggerated.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, I'm sure it is! But that's not what this is about, is it? This isn't about saving the world, it's all just some power play against *him*. I might not know exactly what's going on, but I don't think I want any part of this. However much I want to kill him... I'm out.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Honestly, I mostly just said what I thought you wanted to hear.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Hardly.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: It's not him! It's not anybody. It's just me. Always has been. I...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: When I first came to you, I thought I had lost everything. Jon was dead, my mother was dead, the job I had put everything into trapped me into spreading evil and I... I really didn't care what happened to me. I told myself I was trying to protect the others, but... honestly we didn't even *like* each other. Maybe I just thought joining up with you would be a good way to get killed.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And then... Jon came back, and... and suddenly I had a reason I had to keep your attention on me. Make you feel in control so you didn't take it out on him. And if that meant drifting further away, so what? I'd already grieved for him. And if it meant now saving him, it was worth it.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: When you started talking about the Extinction, though... you had me actually, then, for a while. But then - _(laughs sardonically)_ then, you tried to make me the hero. Tried to sell me on the idea that I was the only one who could stop it. And that I've never sat right with me. I mean, I mean, look - look at me, I'm not exactly a - a chosen one. But by then I was in too deep. So I played along. Waited to see what your end game was, and here we are.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Funny. Looks like I was right the first time. It's probably still a good way to get killed?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAS): _(smugly)_ I warned you, Peter.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Oh, I'm getting there, but if this is the final test or something? Then bad luck. The answer's still no.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Jonah had nothing to do with it.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): You've lost, Peter, admit it. He played you like a... _(gleefully)_ like a... cheap whistle.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Peter. It's time.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Great. Now perhaps one of you, then, can tell me what's...</span>

##### [PETER'S TELLTALE STATIC FADES IN SUDDENLY, DROWNING OUT MARTIN'S VOICE. WHEN IT FADES OUT, MARTIN IS GONE.]

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): It won't be that bad, Peter. You'll see. Now, he'll be here soon, so you can leave or -</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Your choice. Just make sure to leave the door open.</span>

##### [PETER'S STATIC RISES ONE LAST TIME, THEN FADES. ELIAS, BY HIMSELF, LETS OUT A LONG, TRIUMPHANT LAUGH.]

##### [CLICK]


------


##### [CLICK]

##### [A FEW SECONDS OF JON'S LABORED BREATHING]

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Ah, Jon. I was almost worried. You found your way all right?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(out of breath)_ Yes. Yes, I did.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...how?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Suffice it to say I called you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What is this place?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Hmm. A complicated question. And time is as -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The panopticon.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): _(pleased)_ ...*my*, you have grown. Yes. A masterpiece, isn't it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah. It is. And that's you there? Your... body?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Not anymore. But not really, although if you harmed it, it wouldn't go well for me. Or any of your friends, for that matter.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Maybe it's worth it.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Maybe. And I'm sure in another circumstance, you would be more than happy to take your chances for a shot at revenge.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): But...</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): But for Martin, time is very much of the essence.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Where is he?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Peter Lukas has cast him into the Lonely, and with every passing moment he gets further away from you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: How do I bring him back?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): From out here? Impossible.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You want me to follow him?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): No, Jon. *You* want you to follow him. I simply want you to know that if you do so, you are almost certainly not coming back. To go into the Lonely willingly is as good as death.</span>

##### [THERE IS NO HESITATION.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: How do I do it?</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Wasn't too long ago. And I'm sure traces of their passage still remain. Just open your mind. Drink it all in. Know their route, and simply... follow it.</span>

##### [THE STATIC ONCE AGAIN RISES.]

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Very good.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): Are you scared, Jon?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(quietly)_ Yes.</span>

<span class="elias">ELIAS (JONAH): *Perfect.*</span>

##### [WITH THAT, THE STATIC OVERTAKES HIM.]

##### [CLICK]