---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG147 - #0182007 - Weaver"
date:            2019-08-01 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Annabelle Cane, Basira Hussain, Melanie King, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, The Archivist, Cane Family, 105 Hill Top Road, Tape Recorders, Compulsion, Addiction, Manipulation, Paranoia, Mothers, Daughters, Fathers, Sisters, Siblings, Children, Parents, Child Abuse, Child Neglect, Drugs, Books, Dancing, Names, Nicknames, Abandoned Buildings, Empty Buildings, Fire, Burning, Tape Recorders, Arachnophobia, Scopophobia, Thanatophobia, The Web, The Eye, The End]
statement_of:    [Annabelle Cane]
recorder:        [The Archivist]
voiced:          [Basira Hussain, Melanie King, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, The Archivist]
episode_title:   Weaver
episode_number:  '147'
case_number:     '0182007'
statement_date:  2018-07-20
recording_date:  
event_date:      
summary:         "Statement of Annabelle Cane, regarding her history and her observations of the Magnus Institute, London.\nAudio recording by Jonathan Sims, the Archivist."
content_flags:   [Spiders]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag147-weaver
pdf:             https://drive.google.com/file/d/1DjETOM2SLjC3byNPf5OB3qoYTq-Tt86K/view?usp=sharing
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yvLvHrfiwodbj68V18p_-Qt_91N9dXCW8it_awP367M/edit?usp=sharing
official:        false
unofficial:      https://tmatranscripts.tumblr.com/post/186721258601/mag147-weaver-case-0182007pdf
unofficial_name: tmatranscripts.tumblr.com
---

##### [INT. OXFORD, 105 HILL TOP ROAD]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Heads up.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The tape.</span>

##### [A couple of footsteps.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Something's here.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: No *shit!* Look at this place.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah.</span>

##### [There's a sound like a door being closed in the background; it seems like someone, likely Daisy, is checking over the house. The Archivist sighs. As he does:]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: When did you say they finished rebuilding?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: 2008?</span>

##### [More footsteps.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Doesn't look like anyone ever moved in, though.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So this is - ten years of cobwebs?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: More than that.</span>

##### [Footsteps.

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _(heavy sarcasm)_ No, I'm sure this is just the normal number of webs that grow up organically.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So - where are all the spiders?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I - I mean, they *hide*.</span>

##### [More footsteps.]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE (CONT'D): You know, it's a thing they do, spiders; they hide.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Perhaps they bugged out.</span>

##### [Slight pause, but for footsteps.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Was that a *joke?*</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Jon, focus. Are you getting any sense of anything? Can you... See anything?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, I'm just seeing what you're seeing. Still a bit weak from my trip up north, to be honest.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _(drier than the Sahara)_ Sorry we couldn't stop for a *snack*.</span>

##### [Basira snickers. The Archivist sighs.]

##### [Footsteps again, and Daisy hands them all something.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Here, Mel.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: What even are these?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Magnesium flares. Technically not legal anymore; if you need more, just shout.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Oh. Fine. Uh - and, and - please don't call me Mel.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What? Since when?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Always. I'm - _(sigh)_ - trying to be more open about this stuff.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Roger wilco, Miss King.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _(hm)_ Better.</span>

##### [A door opens.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: These flares going to work?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: No idea, but Jon said the Web doesn't get on great with fire, and we don't exactly have a flamethrower, so -</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: I mean, at least until we find the one Gertrude stocked up.</span>

##### [Someone shakily exhale-laughs in the background.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA (CONT'D): Right next to the nukes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm sure the flares will work fine. _(slight pause)_ I mean, un, unless it's all an elaborate plan to have us burn this place down again.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So what if it is?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't follow.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: I mean, anything we do could be part of the "grand master plan." So, what - we do nothing? Just sit on our hands and hope that's not what the Spider wants?</span>

##### [The Archivist sighs. But it's Melanie that jumps in:]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Right, sure, but it *wouldn't* hurt to have a *bit* more of a plan, would it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: *Exactly.*</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: You want to come back later?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _(insistent/explosive)_ *Yes!* That's what I said, isn't it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(large sigh)_ Well, we're here now. Might as well push on.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _(narrowed eyes)_ Famous last words.</span>

##### [Another door is opened; Daisy emerges and shuts it behind her.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Clear. Looks like nothing downstairs.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: You wanna - take a moment before we head up?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What about the basement?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Can't see one.*</span>

##### [\*As a matter of course, music cues tend not to be noted in episode transcripts. However, the cue of high, tremolous violin that comes in the moment Daisy finishes speaking is both surprising and, subsequently, chilling enough that I felt it ought to be mentioned here.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Huh.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You want me to take point?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh - no. No, I've, I've got it.</span>

##### [They all begin to take the stairs; the Archivist's steps are heavy, and the stairs creak under his weight. As he continues climbing, breaths coming heavy, a strangely familiar voice begins to resolve from the background.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You hear that?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: No, I don't hear-</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _(shushes vigorously)_ Yes! Room on the left.</span>

##### [The voice resolves completely.]

##### [It's the Archivist.]

##### [His voice is clearly on tape, and it soon becomes clear that the recording playing is that of case #0122204 _(MAG #1: "Anglerfish.")_]

##### [The following excerpt plays, and gains in volume, as the others speak over it:]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (RECORDING): *- organisation dedicated to academic research into the esoteric and the paranormal. The head of the Institute, Mr. Elias Bouchard, has employed me to replace the previous Head Archivist, one Gertrude Robinson, who has recently passed away.*</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Is that? -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Don't touch it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It's alright.</span>

##### [He steels himself with a bracing breath, hesitates for a moment, then- turns the tape off.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Something underneath it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I see it. Uh - Hand me that brush?</span>

##### [He begins to retrieve the object.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Is - that what I think it is?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(sigh)_ Yep.</span>

##### [He holds the object up; we hear it rustle.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Official Institute paper and everything.</span>

##### [He exhales.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: *Goddamnit.*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement of Annabelle Cane. She left it for us.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Honestly don't know what else you guys were *expecting.*</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Well, that's it, then.</span>

##### [The Archivist lets out a shaky breath.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Come on, let's finish up and get out of here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I - I mean - Are we burning it?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: The statement or the building?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Both?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Don't tempt me.</span>

##### [The girls all laugh.]

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

##### [INT. OXFORD, 105 HILL TOP ROAD, UPSTAIRS TAPE ROOM.]


<span class="basira">BASIRA: -----</span>


##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement of - _(sigh)_ - *Annabelle Cane*. Regarding her history and her observations of the Magnus Institute, London. Original statement written 20th July, 2018. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist. Statement begins.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Free will is a funny old thing, isn't it Jon? Can I call you Jon? I'm going to call you Jon.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Such a strange concept, woven from a thousand different ignorances and experiences, a faculty we only ever truly ascribe to ourselves, and - I suppose, to our gods.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): With any other animal, we talk about instinct, we talk about training; perhaps, if we have spent enough time with them, we talk about personality. But we never talk about *choice*. We never look at a dog chasing wildly after a thrown ball and think "What an odd decision that dog has made."</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): We talk about workings of its mind, and instincts; if it doesn't chase the ball, we wonder why: Is it sick, is it tired? Perhaps something in the nature of this particular breed, this particular dog, makes it prone to ignoring a game of fetch.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The idea of a dog simply *choosing* not to chase feels deeply unnatural. Is it even capable of legitimately making a decision; some would say no.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Of course, people are very different from dogs. Our brains are larger. More complex. So many more little factors and wrinkles to push us and pull us - but does any of that actually constitute free will?</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Free of what? We all have forces that drive us, circumstances that direct us, and even if we choose to ignore these and act against all logic, just to prove that we *can -* is that not simply allowing the existential terror of our own powerlessness to control us instead?</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Scans show decisions are made by your brain long before your conscious mind even has a chance to register them. Most of one's life is simply spent looking back and convincing yourself that you chose deliberately to act like you did.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Hm. Have you ever read *War and Peace,* Jon? I know, I know; I had to read an extract for a literature class once, ended up reading the whole thing.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Another life.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It's not actually as boring as people say, and its central thesis is that the tiniest, most insignificant factors can control the destiny of the world.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): In its post-script, Tolstoy muses on the concept of free will, on whether or not *he* really believes in it. He ultimately decides that if all the millions upon millions of factors that weigh upon our choices were fully and completely known, then all could be foreseen and predetermined.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): But, he argues, it is quite impossible for the human mind to comprehend even a fraction of these. And in that vast, dark space of ignorance lies: free will.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Isn't that marvelous, Jon? Free will is simply ignorance. It's just the name we give to the fact that no one can ever really see everything that controls them.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Of course, that's not the real crux of the free will question that's bothering you at the moment, is it? I think that one probably comes down to whether or not you're *choosing* to continue reading this statement out loud.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): You didn't mean to, did you? No, I'm sure you told Basira and Melanie that you were going to glance over it and report back; perhaps they asked you if you were going to record, and you shook your head: maybe later.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): That sounds like the sort of thing you'd say.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): But think about it, Jon; when's the last time you were able to read a statement quietly to yourself without instinctively hitting record and speaking it aloud? Is it just instinct, habit? Or is it a compulsion, a string pulled by the Ceaseless Watcher or the Mother of Puppets?</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Or both?</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I know the summaries have started to confuse you; where did they come from, when you read a statement fresh? How do you just - know what it's about, before you even start to read it?</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): But by then you're away; the roller coaster is dropping, and you've no real choice but to hold on and hope that - *I don't crash you*.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I'm afraid I don't actually have these answers for you; *I've* simply been... watching. I'm sure you understand that.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): *Maybe* I've occasionally been nudging something here and there to keep you safe, to keep everything on track. But I know you've been more worried about your choices, about whether you're being controlled by me, or by the Mother.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): So I thought perhaps I should leave a little something to reassure you that, yes, your actions and choices have all been your own.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Have they been controlled? No more than gravity controls you when you walk, or hunger controls you when you choose your meal. There are certainly new forces, new instincts and desires, that shape your actions; perhaps you're unprepared for them.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): But if you choose to believe in a free will, then yes: All you have done has been of your own free will. They have all been your choices.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Now, I believe the tradition is to tell you the story of my life, the sinister path that led me to the sorry state in which I now find myself.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Well, let it never be said that I do not dance the steps I am assigned.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I was born into what most would consider a large family. My father worked constantly, and my mother was overwhelmed, leaving some of the older children to watch over the younger ones. Some rose to this responsibility; others deeply resented it and took no pains to hide the fact.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I was one of the youngest, and it soon became clear to my infant mind that in order to get anywhere, the key was to navigate the baroque family politics in which I found myself.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I became very good at it. I would instigate fights between siblings if I needed them in trouble. If I required sympathy, I would bite myself until I drew blood, and then blame it on my sister Lizzie. I discovered a deep and enduring talent inside myself for lying.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): My manipulations were not intricate, but they were far beyond what was expected of a child my age, and I have always believed that the key to manipulating people is to ensure that they always under- or over-estimate you. Never reveal your true abilities or plans.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Of course, I learned many of my skills from my mother, who could wield guilt like a rapier and anger like a scalpel. She never simply screamed at you. She was always aware of exactly what kind of fury or disappointment was needed to make sure you regretted ever catching her attention. She had eight children, yet weaved that life around herself in such a way that she always seemed both the victim of it, yet curiously divorced of any responsibility.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): In many ways, she was the victim, at least of my father, whose pathological absence spoke of a man who had no interest whatsoever in engaging with the life where he had trapped his family.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): However well I had learned my lessons, it was clear that happiness was not something I could have; within that family there was simply too much that I couldn't control.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): My biggest attempt to assert some sort of influence over my family was when I decided to run away. In my childish mind, I was certain that my disappearance would destabilize the entire family unit, allowing me to take my rightful place as the most important child upon my return.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): An infantile fantasy, perhaps, but one I was keen to realize. I intended to stay away for two days and two nights. I took a backpack and filled it with as much food as I could carry _(which was barely enough for a decent lunch,)_ my favorite blanket, and the only book I could say belonged to only me: *Five Go Down to the Sea*. And then I left.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): We lived in Hunstanton, in Norfolk, about twenty minutes walk from the beach, and it was late spring, so I wasn't at all worried about the temperature.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I had chosen where I was to spend the two days I disappeared some weeks before. The air was warm and humid as I snuck out of the house, filled with that slight scent of salt that even now, changed as I am, I sometimes find myself missing here, in the grimy air of London.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): If you walked down the short hill from Hunstanton Town Centre and towards the beach, and took a right just before you reached it, you could find yourself on a small stretch of sand that seemed oddly quiet.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Most days, it was completely deserted, and even on those holidays where the number of sunbathers was so high no part of the beach could fully escape them, it would only have a handful of dedicated loungers lying around, quietly reading and studiously ignoring their own unease.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Exactly why it remained like that and no one seemed to notice - still a mystery to me, even now. But whatever the cause, it was a shunned place, and sitting on the side of the road above it, casting a thick, angular shadow, was the squat brick structure of the old chip shop.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I'd never seen it open. No one had, as far as I could tell. It was painted a dark blue, that never quite matched any color of sky that was behind it, and had a hand-lettered sign that could still be seen covering much of the bare left hand wall in curling, faded typeface.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): CHIPS, it said.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The old chip shop had been around longer than I'd been alive, probably longer, and its silent one-story silhouette had always unsettled me. It was only looking back that I realized how few windows it had: Just one, tiny panel of glass either side of the big doors.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The rest of the structure was just - plain unadorned brickwork.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I don't really know why I decided to hide there, but assuming you've been paying attention, I'm sure you understand by now how little that means. Perhaps deep down, I simply knew it would be unlocked.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The sun was setting by the time I reached it, and if there had been any tourists trying to enjoy the beach in that place, they were long since gone. I was utterly alone, the only sound a few distant seagulls screaming to be fed as they circled aimlessly looking for food.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Against the vivid red-orange of the sky, the old chip shop seemed almost black, like a fallen obelisk. A light rain began to patter down, and I, not having had the foresight to pack an umbrella, ran to it.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I opened the door as quickly and quietly as I could. Inside it was warm and dry, and dust coated everything. I struggled more than once not to sneeze, something I was convinced would somehow alert my family to where I was. So I crawled under one of the counters, and soon enough, sleep had come for me.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I awoke to the sound of rhythmic clattering, the noise of wood striking wood in a complex, intricate pattern. I got up, more curious than fearful at that moment, and took few, tentative steps towards it.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The sound seemed to be coming from one of the back rooms, and seeing as how light seeped from only one of the doors, it seemed to me pretty obvious which room contained my answer.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): So I went inside. Another action which, looking bact after the fact, I found myself pleasingly baffled by.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Inside was a young woman I did not recognize, sat at what I would later learn was an old-fashioned wooden loom. Her eyes and face were sunken, her hands and arms a blur as the machine pressed on. They arced over and through the loom, and I could see much of her inner forearms and legs were covered in tiny holes, small red pinpricks like insect bites.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Looking back, of course, and remembering the crunch of used syringes beneath my feet, I realize that addiction is one of the strongest vectors of control there is.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The woman looked up at me, disinterested, and I saw that the threads of the loom were laced into her skin, all through her track marks, and that dozens of spiders ran up and down those weaving threads and scurried in and out of the holes in her skin.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Her eyes met mine, and traveled upwards towards the ceiling. I followed her gaze for barely five seconds before I fled home, and abandoned my plans to run away entirely.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I may have decided not to describe what I saw up there. I will only say that it is what engendered in me that terror of spiders which eventually led to my volunteering at Surrey University!</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I will simply say that - when a spider reaches a certain size, it is often not entirely made up of *spider* anymore.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): So how much free will was involved in that story? What could I have chosen to change? Would a different path have been possible?</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I felt no loss of control, no puppet strings guided me. And yet, the Mother got exactly the result she no doubt wanted, one that would lead to a fear of spiders so acute that I could later have that horror focused and refined into a silk-spun apotheosis.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Unless, of course, none of it was intentional. None of it was planned. The Mother is the fear of manipulation and lost control made manifest. So perhaps it is our fear that projects her influence on everything that happens.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Like the mind: retrospectively assigning reason to our actions, so we fit whatever occurs into the neatest pattern we can, and declare her web both intricate and complete.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Perhaps she is no more active than Terminus, simply sitting and reveling in the inevitable cascade of paranoia, as those who hold her in special terror cocoon themselves in red string and theory.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Or perhaps I am simply telling you what you need to hear in order to ensure you behave exactly as the Mother wishes you to.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Perhaps I have never even seen a beach.</span>

##### [A light static turns on in the background.]

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): *Don't* go to Hill Top Road again.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement ends.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: That was, uh... I didn't - I, I, I didn't like that. I couldn't -</span>

##### [He cuts himself off, seems to struggle, then makes a frustrated noise.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): So. She is watching the Institute. Interfering with things. _(slight soft gasp, more of frustration than surprise)_ Is that reassuring, or merely really bad?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): I can't say I'm... I can't say I'm sad to have another ally allegedly on our side, but I don't like the idea of being important to the Web.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): That's a really bad place to be.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Annabelle's right, though. I mean, I can't trust anything she says to not be another lie to further manipulate and maneuver us, but deep down I think she's right.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): What I've been doing to these people, it - it hasn't been because I was puppeted, or controlled, or possessed.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): I wanted to do it. It felt good.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): But at least I know I *can* stop; I just - don't know how. I - _(he sighs)_ I don't - *want* to stop. _(ugh)_ Goddamn, this one really took it out of me. I need to go lie down. _(uh)_ End recording.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]