---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG143 - #0181606 - Heart of Darkness"
date:            2019-07-04 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Manuela Dominguez, Basira Hussain, Helen Richardson, The Archivist, Maxwell Rayner, Gertrude Robinson, Elias Bouchard, Natalie Ennis, Mr. Pitch, Robert Montauk, Lynette Montauk, Callum Brodie, Phillip Brown, Brodie Family, Montauk Family, Direct Statements, Ny-Ålesund, Svalbard, Norway, Hither Green Dissenters Chapel, Darkness, Lightbulbs, Doors, Nyctophobia, Scophobia, Maniaphobia, The Dark, The Eye, The Spiral]
statement_of:    [Manuela Dominguez]
recorder:        [Direct]
voiced:          [Basira Hussain, Manuela Dominguez, Helen Richardson, The Archivist]
episode_title:   Heart of Darkness
episode_number:  '143'
case_number:     '0181606'
statement_date:  2018-06-16
recording_date:  2018-06-16
event_date:      2015-03-20
summary:         "Statement of Manuela Dominguez regarding the fall of the Church of the Divine Host\nAudio recording by Jonathan Sims, the Archivist."
content_flags:   [Gun shots, Human sacrifice]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag143-heartofdarkness
pdf:             https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pBQTiDgyt4FXjpW0Kt-hHkC926yvuE6G/view?usp=sharing
accessible_pdf:  
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dHbyykSM3Ck7ko6CxQq5vbL-wdemCF9iVk8gplGq7R0/edit?usp=sharing
official:        false
unofficial:      https://tmatranscripts.tumblr.com/post/186049755301/mag143-heart-of-darkness-case-0181606pdf
unofficial_name: tmatranscripts.tumblr.com
wiki_url:        https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_143:_Heart_of_Darkness
---

##### [INT. PEOPLE'S CHURCH RESEARCH FACILITY, NY-ÅLESUND, NORWAY]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [In the background, there is a steady racket of - what exactly, it is unclear, but something. It sounds rather like a dryer with a pair of shoes inside.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Sure it's this one?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah.</span>

##### [A clicking noise - flashlight?]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Tape recorder thinks so, too.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Right. Something's coming, then?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Could be.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: No windows. Guess that makes sense. We still alone?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I never said we were. Just said I couldn't see anybody.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _(noise of understanding)_ Oh, I thought you meant, like, *See* see.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh - No.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: We need to figure out proper terms for this. _(background noises intensify)_ What are you doing?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Closing the door.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Leave it open. We need as much light as possible, and I'm not seeing any bulbs.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right.</span>

##### [The click of the flashlight again. The background noise is gone by this point, and we hear their footsteps as they begin to walk.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Eyes peeled.</span>

##### [Pause.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Was that a joke?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah.</span>

##### [Silence.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Any clue where everyone is?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Your guess is as good as mine.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Well, my guess is an ambush.</span>

##### [The Archivist sighs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't know. Everyone back at the research base seemed pretty sure this place was empty.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: And you believe them?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: They weren't lying.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Wait - You - Did your -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(overlapping)_ Oh, yeah, no, I don't think they noticed.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So they were serious. It's been empty for, what, a year?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Bit more. As far as they knew, anyway.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So, what, this was another waste of time? _(under her breath)_ I'm gonna *kill* that son of a bitch -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, I - _(inhale)_ I think it's here. I - I, I can feel it, like a - hole in my mind.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: They just left it here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I - *maybe*. _(shaky half-laugh)_ Kinda wish Daisy was here.</span>

##### [Silence, but for the footsteps. Then they, too, stop.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Basira?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah?</span>

##### [Footsteps resume.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sorry. _(shaky inhale)_ I know this isn't - BEHIND YOU!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Down!</span>

##### [Basira fires her gun, and hits some*one,* who grunts in pain. At the same time, we hear the sound of glass shattering - likely the bulb inside Basira and the Archivist's flashlight.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Don't move!</span>

##### [The person continues to grunt in pain. Basira and the Archivist move closer.]

##### [The unknown figure spits at them.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh. *Charming.*</span>

##### [The person starts breathing faster.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Who are you?</span>

##### [The person just grunts angrily.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Jon?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: *Who are you?*</span>

##### [The now-familiar bass component of the Archivist's static kicks in. The person has a brief moment of resistance before their name slips out:]

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: _(resisting)_ Manuela. Manuela Dominguez.</span>

##### [In the background, we hear the mid-tone range of the Archivist's static fade out.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Where is everybody?</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: _(scoffs)_ Go to hell!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(overlapping)_ __*Answer her.*__</span>

##### [Big, booming static again.]

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: They're __dead.__ Because of *you*.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Me?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _(to Jon)_ What did you do?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(hey!)_ Nothing, I don't think!</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Your Institute.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(soft)_ What?</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: So she sent you to finish the job?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Who?</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Your *Archivist* -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I -</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: \- Gertrude Robinson.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: *Gertrude?!* I -</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _(overlapping)_ That doesn't make any sense.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, uh... _(inhale)_ *What. Happened?*</span>

##### [Bass.]

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Don't - Don't make me, please!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: **Tell me.**</span>

##### [Manuela exhales. The static intensifies. We start to get the mid-tones again, and nearly get all the way to the point where the highest shimmery overtone usually kicks in.]

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Fine!... Fine.</span>

##### [The static immediately begins to fade.]

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: And what do you wish to hear? Shall I tell you of the decades of preparation? Of the long wait for the eclipse? Three hundred years from the failure that birthed the thing that preached from the depths of Maxwell Rayner. The sacrifices made to birth the Dark Star that would make it all possible?</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: It was to be a week of night and horror, culminating in the eclipse that passed over Ny-Ålesund on the 20th of March, 2015, almost three hundred years after Halley's eclipse passed over London. We had hundred of sacrifices prepared and ready, plunged into darkness and terror for days on end. All prepared to culminate in the unveiling of that point of purest night at the moment of the eclipse's height.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: It would open the door to a world of true and holy darkness, extinguish the sun, and take us to a place where we would be redeemed of our base and corrupt need for light and warmth.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Maxwell was here, with me, prepared for our moment of triumph, and our churches around the world were ready, in those lost and forgotten places of worship, shut up and left in shadow.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Hither Green was, I believe, where *your* Institute was watching, but Natalie's efforts were but a small and meager part of the greater effort. When they collapsed, it was as nothing to the grand ritual, though... perhaps we should have seen it as the first sign of what was happening. But, we had no idea.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: To begin our seven day feast, we slew the still and lightless beast, and drank of its stagnant blood, submerging the first of the sacrifices in the brackish water it had blessed with its stillness.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Maxwell plunged its claws into his chest, freeing the darkness within him, and we waited. And we sang. And we exalted in divine stillness.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: The darkness was beyond anything that could be imagined, and even in my *wildest* experiments in the void of space, I could not have believed such a peace was possible, as I felt in the quiet whimpering terror of that place.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: The sky was light, but we were well-protected, and we knew that when the sun was swallowed in eclipse, the darkness would be complete. We believed it far too late for anyone to stop us, and the crude methods of your *Archivist* least of all. The death of a few have never been more than an inconvenience, and that's all she was ever really capable of.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: You were not the first to try and stop us, you know. Not even within living memory. I was but newly joined when Lynette fled the church, and Maxwell had her silenced. But I remember her brute of a husband. He fed the beast for us, you know, when first he believed Lynette might still be saved. Then, later, we faithful served as his fuel to banish it.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: But, not for long. That's the thing about darkness, isn't it? You try your hardest to eradicate, flood your surroundings with light, but it's always there at the edges, waiting for the glow to weaken, to return and cover you forever. Robert Montauk discovered that the hard way. And someday, so will your Gertrude.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: But we got so close. We touched it. There is another world, a world of still and quiet darkness, where no heat touches, and death cannot find you. You might wander beneath that empty sky of void forever, and never see a light to guide your way. No left, no right. No up or down. Only forward, into the crowded, shivering gloom.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: For that night is not empty, far from it. Things move there, the sound of shuffling. Scuttling. Crawling. A scream. The fall of gentle stagnant raindrops that chills you as you try desperately to know if that is the sound of the storm... or something out there.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: It is a world of the fear of darkness, and as I began to see it, I felt again that celestial terror that had not gripped my heart since first I gazed upon the pitch-black sun that *I* had created. The scream was mine, and it was joined by uncounted voices in fearful song. I was complete. It was so very close. We were to slice a hole in the world, and this paradise would flow through the wound like ink, smothering the sun, and all its children.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Maxwell had always had the visions, the drive. Whatever was inside him pulled him to this end, to this great undertaking, like a magnet, and I was so very honored to be his right hand. *Natalie* and the others followed, but they did not truly understand. Not *truly*, with their talk of peace and unity and *Mr. Pitch*. A friendly name, to try and hide from a concept they couldn't grasp. Vardaan Darvish had an inkling, I thought, but he crossed a Montauk, which has traditionally gone poorly for us.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: But as the hours turned into days, and the final dusk drew closer, it seemed as though all the uncertainty was washed away.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: I don't know exactly when it all started to come undone. I think Maxwell first felt the ripples four days before the eclipse was due. It was strange. Like a pause in the hysterical whimpering and fruitless prayers of the sacrifices. And a ripple that was felt through the waters, and the stagnant blood that bound us. A disruption. We would later learn that this was the collapse of the ritual at Hither Green. But it was only the first.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Our congregation in Alaska disappeared the next day, and Russia, as well. One by one, it seemed our scattered whisperers of night were falling, and holding it together, keeping the lightless world anchored to our star, bringing it closer, was becoming an almost unbearable strain on Maxwell. I helped as I could, but without knowing what was happening, there was little I could do to stabilize it.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: I began to drown the sacrifices. Too soon, perhaps. But it worked, to keep it going, and keep it together, until at last, we felt it. The eclipse.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: We had been worshipping in the deepest dark, and yet, when it crossed the sun, I felt it rolling over us, like a cooling balm on a summer's day, plunging us into a deep, black void, far more complete than I can ever convey with mere words.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: It was divine. And as we unveiled our new and absent sun, the sacrifices who remained screamed and fell in holy agonies, and the world of endless night we had been promised began to pour in, shining out and all around us. It touched and caressed our souls with the soothing fears of night, and I heard Maxwell weeping with joy at what we had done.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: And then, it stopped.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: It just. Stopped.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: All at once, that loving embrace was stripped from us, and it began to retreat, to recede back into the place it had come from. _(getting emotional)_ We were *so close!* _(softer)_ We were so close.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: I heard Maxwell cry out, scrambling desperately into the dark sun, stopping *just* short of touching it. But it was too late. Whatever it was that __you__ and your *Archivist* did, it clearly worked.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: We left, half of us dead, and the other half destroyed by coming so close to the true essence, _(sigh)_ and being denied.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: In my most wretched hours, I wonder - perhaps it was us. Perhaps we simply lacked faith. We weren't worthy. The world wasn't worthy. But - no. We were ready. We had earned our dark rapture. And we were *robbed*.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: I don't know how long we waited after that. It was weeks before anyone spoke. And then... when they did... the arguments began. The recriminations, the desperate resolutions to try again, to find what went wrong. But, I could see in his eyes that Maxwell was so very tired. And all the words fell to nothing. Instead, we began the search for his successor, a new host for his... continuation.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: He would regain his strength, and we would plan our next move. It was difficult, though; the approaching culmination meant Maxwell had not prepared another host, and the search for another vessel was long and involved. Finally, about eighteen months ago, we found one: a child, whose father had, by coincidence, been directly marked by the Dark.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: It was a desperate plan, but we were desperate, a shadow of what we had been. Maxwell left me here to guard the Black Sun, and everyone else left to help in his rebirth.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: But it didn't work, did it? I can only assume we were too weak to hide from *you*, and you struck when Maxwell was vulnerable.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: For the first six months, I let myself hope that my suspicions were unfounded, that the silence I felt was simply... him lying low, recovering, before returning to his abandoned disciple.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: But no. Soon enough, I could no longer fool myself. He had been slain, and I was alone.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: And here I have remained. Perhaps I have told myself that I am preparing, gathering my own strength, and making plans to continue the church in his name. But I think in my heart, I have been waiting for this moment. For the final axe to fall, and finish the last remnant of our holy crusade.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: And here, at last, you are.</span>

##### [She sighs, breathy.]

<span class="manuela">MANUELA (CONT'D): There. Now you can kill me like the others.</span>

##### [A sigh.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: She telling the truth?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah. I, I mean - Unless she can lie to me somehow. _(inhale)_ *You* said it wasn't the eclipse.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: It's not the time.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well. She believes it, at least. This doesn't make any sense.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Well, where is she? Afraid to face what she's done?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Just __shut up__.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: _(audible smirk)_ Coward. So, how did she do it? It's been three years waiting, guarding this place without hope. At least do me the courtesy of telling me *how* she collapsed our moment of triumph.</span>

##### [A sigh as she speaks.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You really don't know, do you?</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Know what?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Gertrude's dead. She died right around the time of your ritual.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: _(smirk again)_ Ha. So, stopping us took everything she had.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: You wish. She was murdered. Unrelated, as far as we can tell.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: That's - Well - Then why are you here? Maxwell is dead. The ritual failed. What's left?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(inhales)_ A good question. _(exhale)_ Basira?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: You said the Dark Sun was still here.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: _(light laugh)_ Fine. If you're so keen to take everything, undo the work of centuries, it's just through that door.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Jon?</span>

##### [The Archivist sighs. Static begins.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: How dangerous is it?</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Only myself, Maxwell, and Natalie could even look upon it. It will annihilate you both in an instant.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Ask her how we can destroy it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I know how. I just need to see it.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: See as in...?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: As in... actually see it.</span>

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: Go ahead. Just try.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _(overlapping)_ Look, it's okay, Jon. No one else knows it's here. And if we just leave it, no one will know.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, I - _(inhale)_ I'm doing it. _(another steadying inhale)_ Get out.</span>

##### [Basira leaves. The Archivist takes several steadying breaths, and then opens the door.]

##### [The Dark Sun sounds melodic, like pipes groaning harmonics into the wind, like the mournful notes of a creaking iron gate as it is opened for the first time in years.]

##### [An enormous rush of static begins building; it is not the Archivist's static, is much too reedy and wispy for that.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): It's - It's *beautiful*.</span>

##### [The static overtakes the audio field; Manuela gasps and screams -]

<span class="manuela">MANUELA: No - NO!</span>

##### [All at once the static rushes away.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Jon!</span>

##### [Basira opens the door and hurries back.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, I, I'm okay.</span>

##### [Something else shatters - there goes flashlight #2. The Archivist yelps. Basira shoots.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Get down!</span>

##### [She shoots twice more.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(breathing hard)_ Basira?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: I'm alright, just - just one second.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(background)_ Um...</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Stay here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(after her)_ Look, I'm alright, I can help -</span>

##### [But it's too late. Basira has walked off, presumably in pursuit of Manuela. The Archivist groans in frustration. There is a relative silence, during which he catches his breath.]

##### [Then a soft static begins to fuzz in the background. It is one we know, one we have heard many times before. A door creaks open.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Did you catch her?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: *Yes.*</span>

##### [The Archivist gasps: this is __*not*__ who he had been expecting.]

<span class="helen">HELEN: She needed a door.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: H-H-How did you -</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Oh, finding this place was *easy* without the darkness.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Will... she be coming back?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: _(thoughtful)_ *No.* Uh... This one, I think I'll keep.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Why are you here?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: I told you! I've decided to *help*. I thought you might like a way home?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Another door?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: If you want it. _(short pause)_ How was it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Hm?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Looking upon the Dark.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I thought I was going to die.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: You seem to think that a lot. I remember when you thought you were going to die at my threshold.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Go find your Basira. Then let's get you both home.</span>

##### [The Archivist exhales softly.]

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]