---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG132 - #0182403 - Entombed"
date:            2019-03-28 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, The Archivist, Basira Hussain, Melanie King, The Coffin, Claustrophobia, Underground, Caves, Tunnels, Darkness, Earthquakes, Suffocation, Traps, Prisons, Compulsion, Consent, Anchors, The Buried, The Hunt, The Eye]
statement_of:    ["Alice 'Daisy' Tonner", The Archivist]
statement_to:    [The Archivist]
recorder:        [Direct]
voiced:          [The Archivist, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Basira Hussain]
episode_title:   Entombed
episode_number:  '132'
case_number:     '0182403'
statement_date:  2018-03-24
recording_date:  2018-03-24
event_date:      2018-03-24
summary:         'Account of Jonathan Sims, the Archivist, concerning their descent into the Coffin and attempt to rescue Alice "Daisy" Tonner.'
content_flags:   [claustrophobia, emotional trauma, suffocation, crushing, dissociation]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag132-entombed
pdf:             https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V3X5OQFqzu2rMnpUDX5618RgATiqIahA/view
accessible_pdf:  
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/17W8kRc8xkwJJ8ZxO8DEvIxJD_NQs0YjFEsjSDT5HLew/edit?usp=sharing
official:        false
unofficial:      https://tmatranscripts.tumblr.com/post/183773620106/mag132entombedpdf
unofficial_name: tmatranscripts.tumblr.com
wiki_url:        https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_132:_Entombed
---

##### [INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, COFFIN ROOM]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [The Archivist sighs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(under his breath)_ Alright.</span>

##### [He hits play on a different tape.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY (ON TAPE): > [...] Was a coffin. An old, wooden coffin. Rough, unvarnished. I could see splinters where the nails had been hammered in badly. Wrapped all around it was a thick metal chain ending in a heavy padlock. That weird moaning was coming from inside it. It was the only sound that cut through pounding rain.</span>

##### [The Archivist clicks Daisy's tape off, and ejects it from the player. We hear him put a fresh tape into what must be a player/recorder. He clicks it on. He takes a long, shaky breath, steeling himself for whatever is to come.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Hello, Melanie. I.. know I said we'd wait until Basira was back, b, but I, I don't... _(heavy sigh)_ I-I'm sorry. I, I-I know she won't - _(sigh)_ She'd want to do it a different way. But I know what I'm doing; this time I do. I, I hope. I have her voice. I think that should be enough to find her, and, and I'm leaving my - _(can't say it)_ I'll leave it with the tape. I should be able to find my back to it. I think. _(pause)_ Wish me luck.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...Although, I suppose if you're hearing this, then I.. I didn't have any. I don't know. I, I'm - _(slight pause)_ I'm scared?  _(dry laugh)_ When does the fear go away?  _(pause)_ A-Anyway, I'm sorry.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You too, Basira, if you're hearing this. _(pause)_ I know you'd - stop me. You'd be right to, but - but if this goes wrong, all you lose is - _(abrupt)_ I'm not risking anyone else. And I know - _(pause)_ I-I think. I can get her out. </span>

##### [He clicks the tape off.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Right. You're coming with me.</span>

##### [He sighs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Let's do this one properly.</span>

##### [We hear a static begin to rise; it's from the coffin.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): No need for that. I'm willing.</span>

##### [The static fades away as immediately as it came.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Right.</span>

##### [He lifts the padlock, and the chain rattles as he pulls it off and they fall to the floor. Then we hear the ominous rattling creak as he pulls open the lid of the coffin.]

##### [He clicks on a torch.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST  (CONT'D): _(slightly shaky)_ Stone steps. Roughly hewn. _(slight pause)_ They, uh... They keep going. _(brave face)_ Well. No point in waiting.</span>

##### [We can hear his breath shake slightly as he steps into the echoing coffin. The lid closes above him almost immediately with a hollow thump.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Christ.</span>

##### [He takes a deep, shaky breath, as well as a few steps.]

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

##### [INT. COFFIN]

------

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [When the Archivist speaks, his voice sounds strained, as if he's under some sort of intense pressure. We hear his clothes rustle as he moves.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm not sure how long it's been. The steps ended, eventually. There's passages, but - it's very, uh... It's close. I'm having some trouble, but. I'm going the right way. I know it. I just - I-I just need to keep moving. When I stop, it -</span>

##### [He grunts, takes another step.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): _(even more strained)_ It starts to - p-press on me.</span>

##### [More rustling.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Just keep going.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

------

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): I-I can't stand. Anymore. I - It's - It's not a passage. Not anymore. It's a tunnel.</span>

##### [The rustling noises get louder for a second.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Barely that. But I'm - I'm definitely getting closer. _(strained)_ If I can just -</span>

##### [The rustling increases in volume and intensity as the Archivist makes a few sounds of exertion. Finally, he makes it through whatever tight space had been holding him back, and he lets out a noise of relief.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): My torch is broken. I didn't even drop it. It - It got caught against the wall, and -</span>

##### [More rustling.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Crushed. God, I - _(inhale)_ I don't even know how long I've been here.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

------

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [The Archivist's voice is much closer and definitely raspier.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): I - heard someone. He was begging off of me to save him. Said he couldn't breathe. _(slight pause, gasp)_ I can barely breathe. I couldn't find him. But I am - _(strained)_ not here for him. I don't know him. I can't - I can't see anything here. For all this place closes around me, I-I feel a drift. Like nothing can get through the dirt and the muck and -</span>

##### [He loses himself to the moving for a second.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): I still have Daisy's tape. And I still think I'm going the right way. When I move at all.</span>

##### [The rustling gets louder and the motion more jerky.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Feels like every inch costs me another scrape, o-or bruise. _(inhale, his voice sounds more normal)_ I'd hoped I was beyond that, but apparently not. And -</span>

##### [He lets out a very pained sound.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): The air is heavy. Soil and dust. I am - very thirsty. But I know I won't die of it. _(moving again)_ I won't die of anything down here. Not ever. Not if I - can't find my way out. When I first came down, I could feel it, the - the part of myself I left outside, but - _(inhale)_ But it's been getting fainter and now... I'll try not to think about it. Don't - Don't want to stretch my mind, to try and see, in case it's not there at all. I can't afford to think about it. Not now.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

------

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [We are immediately greeted with the Archivist's cry of pain.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): I-I think - _(more cries)_ Oh god. I-I-I think I'm-I'm stuck.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

------

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [He's still stuck. We can tell by the extremely labored cries of pain. But then he stops. He's cut off by - a roll of thunder?]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Wha-What?</span>

##### [The droning rumbling continues, and as the Archivist takes several shaky breaths of surprise, it gets louder.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): _(whisper)_ Oh no. N -</span>

##### [There's a crack, and what sounds like a landslide, if you could find a landslide inside a coffin. The Archivist yells, makes several strangled sounds, followed by many more sounds of pain.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Daisy! J - DAISY!</span>

##### [More sounds of struggle.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(from far away)_ Jon!</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

------

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Daisy, can you reach me?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(is this a dream?)_ I can't. Can't see you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Follow my voice.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Is that? - I, I can't -</span>

##### [Pained sound from the Archivist.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Ah -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You - You're real. You're *real*.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes. _(pain)_ I'm here, Daisy.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(still hazy)_ Daisy. Yeah. Daisy. That's me.</span>

##### [She lets out a short, mirthless laugh.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Are you alright?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I, I, I can't move; I - I can't - And I can't - *breathe*, and -</span>

##### [She starts breathing heavier.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, god.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Just - *alone*. I, I think. I think. I hear, uh, this, sometimes - singing. When it's we - when it's wet. Or scratching, trying to get out - But I don't - I don't - _(struggling to get the words out)_ I don't think there's - there's anyone - there. _(continues struggling)_ It's just - It's just - me. Til now.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Are you... Are you okay?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: No.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sorry. Obviously. No, I just meant - Y, You sound- okay.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Do I?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I thought you might've been - taken over. By the Hunt.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The Hunt. You're a Hunter.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(strained)_ Yeah - I guess I was. But- not here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: N-no. I- I can't f-feel my blood. I could always feel it- I can't, It can't reach me here. _(struggles)_ Where are we?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The coffin. We're in the coffin. I-It leads to... Well, it's got a lot of names. Choke. The Buried. _(pain)_ Too-Close-I-Cannot-Breathe.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yeah. Sounds - sounds right.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Come on. _(pain)_ Let's get you out of here.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Can't - can't move. Even - if I - if I could. There's no way out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It's okay, I've uh - I've got a plan.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I-Is this like all your other plans?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It's fine; I just - I just need to - to find it.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Come on. Come on, where are you?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Jon?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Come on.</span>

##### [A large, low rumbling begins. The Archivist breath turns ragged. There's a static.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Jon?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I know.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Th-The way out?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No. I know where we are. There isn't no out, not here. This is- This is forever deep below creation. Where the weight of existence bears down. This is The Buried, and we are alive. There isn't even an up. Oh god. _(pain)_ What have I done?</span>

##### [Silence, but for Daisy's breathing.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: N-Not alone, though.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(barely a whisper)_ No. No, not alone.</span>

##### [More silence.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Jon?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(immediately)_ Still here.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Good, I - _(swallows)_ Good. I- I- I- I want to talk.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Okay, um. What do you want to talk about?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: D - I, I don't care, I- I- I just, I just want someone to hear me.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Well, I'm not going anywhere.</span>

##### [Daisy's breathing approaches a panicked laugh, and she's not able to get out more than a few syllables.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Daisy?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I, I want to, but it's - difficult.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Would it help if I - a-*ask*?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Y-Yeah, yes, alright. Do your... thing.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(pain)_ Right. _(he clears his throat)_ Uh...</span>

##### [His trademark static begins to build.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): How are you feeling?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Scared. I, I'm, I'm, s-scared. I've been scared the whole time here. Not just when it- when it's - cr-crushing, w-when it f-fills your - your mouth with- with di-dirt. _(pause)_</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: It knows when to stop. W-When to e-ease back, so you don't - don't lose it, or grow numb. L-Leaves you terrified for when it s-starts again, and when it does, y-you're, you're s-scared it'll - _(sniff)_ never - never stop.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(on the brink of crying)_ I thought- thought I'd _(breath)_ I'd ne-never see the sky again, never - _(close to breaking)_ never s-see Basira - _(she composes herself)_</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: But - But - But now - you - you've got out of, of, of other stuff like this; maybe, maybe you'll get out of this, and, and then take me with you. _(heavy breathing)_ But I don't know what I'll be out, outside. _(pause)_</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: The-The Hunt, it can't reach me here. I'm s-scared, but - mm - _(straining sound)_ But I - I feel more - feel more me... than I have for *years*. Maybe all my life. The Hunt was me - _(strain)_ But I don't - I don't think I liked it. I think it just made me - *need* it. _(strain)_ I hurt. A lot of people. And some who - who I shouldn't have. _(effort)_</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Did you ever hear the story Elias told me? About what I - did. How I am. He - He didn't get a detail wrong. The Hunt. Hunger was in me all my life. Telling me who to chase. How to hurt them. _(heavy breathing)_ I never needed to think. Who I was outside of that. </span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: But down here, where I-I can't hear the - blood, anymore. I, I don't - I don't know who I am without, without the chase. I just know that I - I don't like who I was, back outside. I don't want to be her again. I want - to be - *better*. _(breathing)_ Mmm - _(more breathing)_ </span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Y-You know what I thought, when I woke up here? I thought this was *hell*. I wa- I was dead, and I was in hell. And I - _(sob)_ I knew I deserved it. _(strain)_</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I don't want t-to b,be a s-sadistic predator again. I-I don't want to hobble around like some - *pathetic* wounded prey here. I don't know which would be worse. But I'm sc-scared now. That I won't ever get the choice.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(pain)_ One thing I've learned, Daisy, is that we all get a choice. Even if it doesn't feel like one.</span>

##### [Pause.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I was gonna kill you. You know that, right?</span>

##### [The Archivist laughs, as much as he can, current situation considered.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I mean, I definitely got that impression when you _(pain)_ dragged me into the woods for an execution.</span>

##### [Another sound of pain.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: No. _(heh)_ No. After the mission. I was planning to kill you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... I did not know that.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I realized - you were in my dreams. R-R-Reliving - this. T-The coffin. You were *there*.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Didn't think it was real. Not really. Just my mind putting you there, because I *hated* you, but no. One night, you turn up in a new shirt. Didn't fit you. Not your style.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(shaky breath)_ I-I didn't think much of it, just a-a dream. Then you come back from the States, and guess what you're wearing.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(overlapping)_ Realized what was happening then. Realized you weren't human. Needed to die, as soon as it was safe. Never mind Elias, and his... *insurance*.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And now?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Don't know. I- I miss dreaming. You don't sleep, down here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Daisy - you should know, I-I'm -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(he chooses his words carefully)_</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-If I wasn't human before, I'm, uh - I'm even less now.</span>

##### [In the background, the rumbling sound of the Buried is driving back up in full force.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yeah. Well. At the moment, I don't care.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And if we get out?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: But we can't get out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No.</span>

##### [The Archivist cries out again as the wrath of the Buried comes back full force. Daisy does not yell, but her breaths get even more laboured, and she strains out a few syllables.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I'm s - I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Jon. I'm sorry.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]

------

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [The Archivist lets out a breath of surprise.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: D-Daisy!</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Uh - I'm, I'm here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I- I can-</span>

##### [The Archivist's own static begins to rise.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): It's - It - It's closer.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What is?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: M-My, My, My anchor, my - the, oh,</span>

##### [The bass (static) drops in.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): a rib; I can f - I can feel - I know the way.</span>

##### [Various gasping noises that may also be ‘wh-‘s from Daisy. The Archivist begins to move.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: W-What? H-How?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't - _(strain)_ It's like - _(strain)_ My mind link is - stronger.</span>

##### [More straining and grunting as they move. The static grows louder, heavier.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(breathing heavy)_ Slow down. I-I can't -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Don't let go. _(effort)_ Come on. We're close. This way.</span>

##### [They continue.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Here, come on - push!</span>

##### [They both groan loudly as they heave against the coffin lid, pushing it open. As they do, and the Archivist sighs in relief? Contentment? numerous voices overlap in the background, seemingly all talking at once, speaking over each other as if they're in a very large crowd.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Wh - We're out! We're really out! I can't believe-</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Umm...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What? What is it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Tape recorders. _[Good lord,]_ must be dozens of them.</span>

##### [The door opens.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Jon, you *stupid* idiot! What did you think?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(soft)_ *Hi.*</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Oh my god.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]