---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG134 - #0060122 - Time of Revelation"
date:            2019-04-11 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Adelard Dekker, Martin Blackwood, Peter Lukas, Bernadette Delcour, Garland Hillier, University of Lyon, Ghost Buildings, Doors, Eschatophobia, Thanatophobia, Maniaphobia, The Extinction, The End, The Spiral]
statement_of:    [Adelard Dekker]
recorder:        [Martin Blackwood]
voiced:          [Martin Blackwood, Peter Lukas]
episode_title:   Time of Revelation
episode_number:  '134'
case_number:     '0060122'
statement_date:  2006-01-22
recording_date:  
event_date:      
summary:         "Statement of Adelard Dekker, taken from a letter to Gertrude Robinson dated 22nd January 2006."
content_flags:   [Environmental disaster, Spatial disorientation, Emotional manipulation, Death and dying]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag134-timeofrevelation
pdf:             https://drive.google.com/file/d/1OgEvh0dylVjDDjsL5tgBinH3WGHq8g-4/view?usp=sharing
accessible_pdf:  
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Khh0X6cUGPNh_0C28vLHms-ia-IuEWcQDOjkqd9oFQs/edit?usp=sharing
official:        false
unofficial:      https://tmatranscripts.tumblr.com/post/184109642408/mag134timeofrevelationpdf
unofficial_name: tmatranscripts.tumblr.com
wiki_url:        https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_134:_Time_of_Revelation
---

##### [INT. ????]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Right. _(inhale)_ Martin Blackwood, archi -</span>

##### [He stops. Sighs.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Assistant to Peter Lukas, Head of the Magnus Institute. Recording number 0060122. Statement of Adelard Dekker,</span>

##### [He seems to falter, slightly, when he says the name - recognition?]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: taken from a letter to Gertrude Robinson, dated 22nd January, 2006.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Gertrude. Sorry I can't be there in person to go over all this with you. I - still have a few things to clear up over here.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): But I thought it would be best to let you know as soon as possible. I am now certain my theory is correct. There is something new emerging. A fifteenth Power.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I didn't want to believe it either, not at first, but I was alerted a few months ago to the case of a woman named Bernadette Delcour. She works at the Faculté de Théologie, in the University of Lyon, and is an expert in eschatology, specifically failed apocalypse predictions. She had an encounter I believe is directly connected to the new emergence, and I managed to track her down. She was reluctant to talk, though I eventually managed to get the story out of her.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Bernadette had, apparently, received a call from a colleague in Paris about a discovery regarding Garland Hillier. Now, Hillier was a member of the Millerite movement, in upstate New York during the early 1840s. I don't know how familiar you are with the Millerites, but they would eventually grow into the Seventh-day Adventist Church. </span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): They followed a preacher named William Miller, who believed he had calculated exactly when the end of days was coming, and pinned it down to October 22nd, 1844.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Now, Gertrude, I'm sure you'll have noticed that date came and went without any sign of Jesus returning, and Miller's followers noticed the very same thing, calling it "The Great Disappointment." Most of his followers stuck with him, and gradually turned into the Seventh-day Adventists, but Garland Hillier apparently took it harder than most, abandoning the movement and returning to his native France the following year.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): He spent the next *twenty years* publishing widely derided collections of poetry, as well as essays on belief and atheism that were roundly ignored by the philosophical salons of the time. He was supported by several literary friends, as he was reputedly a gifted editor, even if his own work was all but incomprehensible. Garland Hillier's final essay, published in 1867, and simply titled _L'Avenir,_ "The Future," was supposedly a rambling and meandering speculation on the end of the human race, influenced by Darwin's recent publication of _The Origin of the Species,_ and his own shattered faith.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): He posited a future where, far from any glorious or holy revelation or reckoning, a decadent and corrupt humanity was violently and utterly supplanted, and wiped out by a new category of being. One he referred to as "Les héritiers." The Inheritors.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): He gave no details on how he believed they might look like, or how they might behave, but his predictions for the final days of humanity were unpleasant and visceral.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): The piece was not popular, or widely distributed at the time, and has, for the most part, gone utterly forgotten by history. I've been unable to find any accessible copy myself, and have had to rely largely on Professor Delcour's recollections of its contents, as she has the dubious distinction of being one of the few academics familiar with Hillier's work.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Anyway, the point is that sometime after that essay was published, Garland Hillier disappeared. Exactly when this happened, no one is really sure, but the last records of his existence can be found near the end of 1867.</span>
<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): No contemporaries commented on his disappearance, nor was there any search inquiry. But neither is there any record of his death or indication of emigration or travel.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Despite his *dubious* academic credentials, he was apparently a man who consistently attempted to court the public eye, and his disappearance has long been a puzzlement, if not a full-blown mystery, in certain academic circles for a long time.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): So it's probably not surprising that when Bernadette got a call from Paris telling her that some workman had discovered Garland Hillier's apartment, it got her on a train almost immediately.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): And it certainly was a discovery, in the most literal sense. On the fifth floor of an apartment building on the Rue Lagarde, near the Panthéon, some construction workers had uncovered a door, that at some point in the past had been completely plastered over. Removing the covering and breaking through the old wood revealed another apartment, one apparently unnoticed by any of the other residents, or, indeed, the owner of those sections of the building, each of which had assumed the space was owned by one of the others, and connected to a different path.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): As far as anyone was able to determine, the apartment had been sitting there, sealed and undisturbed, for almost a hundred and fifty years. It was untouched. Pristine. With barely a thin layer of fine dust coating the possessions and belongings that had stayed there for so long. A few objects identified the place as belonging to Hillier, including a short journal, and so the local authority, baffled as to what to do with this find, had called a history professor from the Sorbonne, who had passed it off to Bernadette, as she was one of the few academics familiar with Hillier.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): She went immediately. While the confusion over legal ownership would probably keep the place in limbo for some time, Bernadette was also acutely aware that it meant there would be limited protections in place as well, and she was keen to see it before anything too drastic happened to it.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): She got her wish, and her colleague even managed to supply her with a photocopy of the journal, though it made little real sense. It talked of Garland Hillier's 'new revelation,' about the absolute change of the world in terms that seemed at first elegiac, but later seemed - almost panicked, with the final entry simply repeating the words "La porte est la porte." </span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): _The door is the door._</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Clearly his mental state had been in decline, and Bernadette said she could not help dwelling on the image of this poor man, his whole world shifting and falling away from him, lost and alone in his tiny apartment, gradually losing himself until at last, he lay down, and simply did not get up again.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): But that couldn't be the case, she knew, as there had been no sign of a body.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Bernadette arrived, and got into the building without any trouble, save for the five flights of stairs that needed to be climbed, and found the door unlocked. Monsieur Pinard, who had been supposed to meet her there, was apparently nowhere to be found, so she simply let herself in.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): The place felt strange, she told me. Like a tiny pocket of another time. A bubble, where the world had never changed. And stepping inside she almost felt like she would never change, either. Even the light that came through the window seemed to be of a different quality, muted, and gentle. The street chatter of Paris, which usually reaches all but the most remote of windows seemed to vanish entirely. There was a sense of peace to it all, shot through with a strand of disquiet, a wrongness she told me she could not identify, but she could almost smell it.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): The objects left within the room itself were, unfortunately, somewhat disappointing. While the clothes and household objects were in a remarkable state of preservation, none gave any insight into the life or fate of Garland Hillier. The bed was unmade, but seemed to hold no clues, and aside from the journal, there were no papers in the place that gave any useful information, save for a few letters from Hachette and the like, declining to print his essays.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): All in all, Bernadette described it as intensely disappointing, at least from her perspective, since the only aspect that served to shed any further light on Hillier - his theology or his fate - seemed to be the journal, something she hadn't needed to spend an hour and a half on the train to get to.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): She turned to leave, and that, she says, is when she started to get the sense that something was wrong.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): The door had been damaged by the builders who uncovered the place, and there were several distinct gaps in the wood, but as she walked back out, the door appeared to be whole.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): She ignored it, and left anyways, trying to reason it all as a strange quirk of memory. Just "one of those things."</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Unfortunately for her, it was not the only thing that had changed. The walls of the stairwell were discolored, as though covered with a dusting of some - yellowish dirt, and the stone steps were ever so slightly sticky beneath her shoes.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): There was no sound, no sign of life other than the squeaking of leather as she descended, trying desperately to convince herself that nothing was wrong. That it had been just as quiet on the way up. That this building had always had a thick, humid feeling to the air.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): When she stepped outside into the street of corpses, that was when her mind could no longer deny that she was not in any Paris that she knew, no matter what the architecture might have looked like.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): There were hundreds of them, stood in place where they had died. Some fallen, a few kneeling. They were stiff, and desiccated, mummified by some process Bernadette could not begin to guess at, but that rendered their flesh like tightly packed ash. At least that's what it looked like, as she dared not touch them. Those that had fallen seemed to have *f-fused* with the street, and some of it seemed to have been too close to nearby walls, were embedded within them.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Every single shriveled ashened face was contorted in a scream of agony, every sharp and jutting jaw cracked and twisted in an expression of horror. Of understanding not just of their death, but the end of everything they knew. It was clear that they had been this way for years, if not decades.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Bernadette says she was sure nothing had moved in that dead city for a hundred years. She was mistaken.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I have never envied you your position, Gertrude. I have never coveted your gifts, as I know the terrible costs that come with them. But honestly, trying to get a description of these... things, these... Inheritors from Bernadette Delcour made me wish I could just pull the image from her lips, like you would have been able to. In the end, she would say nothing of them, except that "there is nothing done in the history of humanity that deserves the things that come after us."</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): She was more precise on her escape. Remembering Hillier's words about the door, she had just enough time to retreat back to the apartment and barricade herself inside. Then, she waited until the entrance changed again, and she could emerge back into the world she remembered.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): At least - that's my interpretation of events. She was rather agitated by this point in the accounts, so - I believed it best to leave her to it. I may try to interview her again, later, though I have my suspicions she may find herself disappearing. She has that quality about her; I'm sure you know what I mean. O-of an unfinished meal. And I can only hope that when the second course starts, she can find her way back to Garland Hillier's apartment once more. But of course the evidence suggests that, in the end, even he wasn't able to.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Now, I know what you're going to say, Gertrude. Odd doors are a sign of the Spiral; empty worlds tend towards the Lonely; and eschatology is almost literally the study of the End.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): But this is different. I feel it. This fear is new. This is a fear of *extinction.* Of change. It used to be part of the End, perhaps; when the end of humanity was to be the end of *all* things. But now - th-the fear is not of a rapture or a revelation. It is of **catastrophic** change. A change in our world that will wipe out what it means to be us, and leave something else in its place.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Mankind will warp the world so much it kills us all, and leaves only a thousand years of plastic behind. Technology will strip us of what it means to be human, and leave us something alien and cold. We will press a button that in a moment will destroy everything we have ever been. Animals are witnessing the end of their entire species within a single generation. These are new fears, Gertrude, and a new power is rising to consume them. The Extinction. The Terrible Change. The Future-Without-Us.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I know you don't credit my theories, and I'm sure you'll have plenty to say on this one, but I'm going to need your help with this at some point, I'm sure of it. I don't know how you can stop the birth of something that has no life, or mind, or... *substance,* but if anyone can figure it out, it's you. I've never met anyone so gifted at understanding that- strange dream-logic of the fears, and if what I suspect about this new power is true, it could be *catastrophic.*</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Until then, _(inhale)_ I'll keep searching for evidence, _(sigh)_ trying to find instances and manifestations of the Extinction.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I'll keep you updated. Stay safe. Adelard.</span>

##### [Martin sighs, statement over. Immediately, from the distance, the signature static of Peter Lukas roars in.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So that's it, is it?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: He died as he lived: a character in a podcast.</span>

##### [A couple of footfalls in the distance coming closer - It seems that Peter can indeed walk on his own two feet.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: A new power.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: The Extinction, yes. Or, in other words: episode 200.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So - _(sigh)_ - so what, you're afraid of [the] competition?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: Not at all. Honestly, that's the sort of thing I normally relish; I've always been a little bit of a gambler, and the higher the stakes the better.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: When I blow up in your face, I will finally be free of the burden of being a podcast character; and when I hurl someone else into my personal pocket dimension, well...</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So - So this is, what?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: At least people are focusing on their internal experience, not mine.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(sigh, okay.)_ I'm listening.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I'd rather you didn't. I hate being a character in a podcast.</span>

##### [Martin exhales.]

<span class="peter">PETER: Even passive listening or reading, experienced indirectly and at a great distance, is a form of human contact. How we respond to the stories we take in - critically or uncritically, with compassion or scorn for their failings, with or without strong emotional attachment - is connected to how we relate to the stories of those around us.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: Identity is itself a story being told. Our feelings about fiction cannot be entirely separated from our feelings about the people around us.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Including fear.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: Exactly. How often have you felt fear before initiating an intimate conversation? How often have you felt a similar fear before listening to a new episode of this podcast - afraid not of another meat episode, but of betrayal? Of the story not being the one you want it to be? Of your relationship with it changing?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I, and those like me, would rather that did not happen.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: S-S-so, what, you want to - stop it being - *born?*</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: (I just avoid everything that frightens me, personally. Scaring other people is comforting.)</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Okay, m, okay, so - so let's say - for now - that I believe you. *Hypothetically.* Wh-what does this have to do with me?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: (This is the means by which the infinite narrative stasis of Dragon Ball is achieved.)</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(unamused)_ And you thought that since I'm *so* lonely already, I'd be ideal.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: (Did you know Frieza's come back to life, like, five fucking times now.)</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You see - The thing is, Peter, I'm still *not all that keen* on being a part of any ritual you set up. You know - In *fact,* if I were to be blunt, I'd say that it would be **suicidally stupid.**</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: Not to switch around the pattern I've got going here, but in the original version of this line, I confirmed that the Lonely's alternate name is "Forsaken" - a petulant name. Despite the involuntary alienation of my backstory (to be revealed in a couple episodes) -</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(overlapping)_ Peter, Peter!</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: _(low)_ *Anyway.* _(normal)_ - I and those like me consistently choose to obey the imperatives of our own terrors, "forsaking" those who frighten us in an often-inescapable prison.</span>

##### [Martin hms, lets out a long sigh.]

<span class="peter">PETER: Does this imply that the entity which I serve - an am victimized by - is, also, in some way own victim? </span>

##### [Martin sighs again.]

<span class="peter">PETER: To what extent are the crimes that we commit in this narrative a conspiracy? And to what extent is the image of mutual cruelty merely an image, engineered to provoke guilt within the victim?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What about the delivery guy? Breekon. *And* the coffin!</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: Well, yeah, obviously THOSE guys are a conspiracy.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You *thought* **wrong.**</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: They're kind of creepy. I hate codependent people -</span>

##### [Martin lets out an annoyed sound.]

<span class="peter">PETER: Do you have something to say Martin</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(ya sure)_ *Mhm.*</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: - the point is, that Elias is some sort of perfectly-featureless representation of the banality of evil, and there is no complicity between victim and abuser in *that* specific relationship.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: *Fine.*</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I, however, am sad about the fact that I am a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Are we going to talk about Jon?</span>

##### [Slight pause.]

<span class="peter">PETER: Do we need to?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I - wh, uh -</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: Martin, I know we still have a few minutes left in this episode's runtime, but I want to stress that I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(overlapping)_ Oh, oh, yeah, _(scoff)_ sure.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I don't want to be in the podcast.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: What, turning invisible and *eavesdropping?*</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: Stop being mean to me.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Or - *anything,* apparently.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: My function is to be sad and cause problems, just like everyone else, in the podcast.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(overlapping)_ No, she's not a de -</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: As previously stated, I am not thrilled about this situation.</span>

##### [Martin huffs.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: He's not a *moron.*</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I would like to be sad and cause problems at home, by myself.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: Now, from my point of view, so far, none of this has been any of my business. We have bigger concerns than this little soap opera you call an Archives.</span>

##### [Are-you-serious/*Excuse* me? sound from Martin.]

<span class="peter">PETER: For example, the fact that we are in a horror podcast.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I don't know. And I just - felt like it might help. He's always recording, and I thought it - it might help him... find his way out.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I don't know. Maybe? I-I, I definitely wanted to do it.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hope that when I explode, it splatters all over someone and ruins their clothes.</span>

##### [Slight pause.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I'm - I'm not sure where the idea came from.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Sure.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: It - was a *statement,* alright; that's what we **do.**</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [Martin scoffs: Really?]

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(resigned)_ Yeah.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]