---
layout:         post
title:          "MAG131 - #0182003 - Flesh"
date:           2019-03-21 12:00:00 -0400
categories:     episode
tags:           [Jared Hopworth, The Archivist, Melanie King, Helen Richardson, Basira Hussain, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Sebastian Adekoya, Regan Hasnain, The Boneturner's Tale, Mail, Consent, Trust, Betrayal, Surgery, Mutilation, Self-Mutilation, Traps, Prisons, Doors, Mazes, Anger, Knives, Anchors, Carnophobia, Maniaphobia, The Flesh, The Spiral, The Slaughter]
statement_of:   [Jared Hopworth]
statement_to:   [The Archivist]
recorder:       [Direct]
voiced:         [The Archivist, Melanie King, Helen Richardson, Jared Hopworth]
episode_title:  Flesh
episode_number: '131'
case_number:    '0182003'
statement_date: 2018-03-20
recording_date: 2018-03-20
event_date:     
summary:        "Statement of Jared Hopworth, the Boneturner, regarding his association with Flesh and recent activities."
content_flags:  [self harm, body horror, dismemberment, emotional trauma, knife violence]
acast_url:      https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag131-flesh
pdf:            https://drive.google.com/file/d/1645hpUgQ073mUp2qTBrovvLBxWx6s1XC/view?usp=drivesdk
accessible_pdf: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AStOb53eYKa7vHDtmppah_m6aNXRJw3l/view?usp=drivesdk
official:       true
wiki_url:       https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_131:_Flesh
---

##### [CLICK]

##### [DEEP BREATH]

##### [BREATHING INTENSIFIES]

##### [DETERMINED EXHALATION]

##### [THUNK]

##### [A WHIMPER]

##### [WET RIPPING, AS OF EXTRACTING A BLADE FROM FLESH]

##### [PAINED SOUNDS]

##### [TAPE CRACKLING AS THE ARCHIVIST GRUMBLES AND BREATHING EVENS OUT]

##### [CLEARING OF THROAT AS A SECOND CLEAVING IS ATTEMPTED]

##### [THUNK]

##### [MORE WHIMPERING]

##### [FLESHY EXTRACTION AND TAPE CRACKLING AGAIN]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Pained frustration]_ Oh, come on... Everyone else can carve up the Archivist, but when he actually needs it...</span>

##### [NOISE OF FRUSTRATION AS METAL CLATTERS TO THE GROUND]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: What're you doing?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Surprised]_ Oh! Uh...</span>

##### [CLOSES DESK DRAWER]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Melanie, I-I'm... S-Sorry, I didn't, er... I didn't know you were there.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Enunciating carefully]_ What are you doing?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm... Would you believe I'm... trying to save Daisy?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Sharply]_ With more bullshit surgery?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh I... Melanie, I-I-I'm so sorry.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Weary]_ Oh, fuck off!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I was trying to save your life.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Yes, well... you did. I think. But I also, y'know, see your face now, when I wake up screaming. I feel you digging into my leg. Chalk it up as a win for Team Archive, I guess.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I wanted to ask you.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: And if you had, we wouldn't be talking right now. I'd have said no, and I'd probably have hurt you. Basira was right. The only way to do it was to completely betray my trust, and destroy any remaining sense of safety.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: So, yes. Thank you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah, I-I'm... I'm surprised you can stand to see either of us.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Frustratedly]_ Who else is there? I mean, Basira is... heh. She's been the only one for a long time and, yes, I, sort of, maybe, hate her now. I don't know. I can't **look** at her without my leg hurting. But **what** else am I going to do? I don't want to be on my own, and I'm stuck here. So...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Basira said you were doing better.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Distressed]_ Would you just stop? _[Getting agitated]_ This isn't better. I'm not *dying,* and I don't want to kill you. It's-It's... it's just **different**! Yes, it's sort of, 'better', maybe, but... but I can't - </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (BACKGROUND): No... Right, no I - Y-Yeah, Melanie- </span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (BACKGROUND): Melanie...</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Don't tell me to calm down! Don't you **dare**!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes, I...</span>

##### [MELANIE EXHALES, REGATHERING COMPOSURE]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Basira is... um. Basira deals in 'intel' these days, in usable data, assets. Not feelings. Not people. Crying, shaking, nightmares... that **is** better. It doesn't feel like it, but as far as Basira sees it... I'm not 'compromised' anymore. And... that... is better.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: At least it's out. Maybe... maybe It's enough to start healing? Start letting go of the anger.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Oh just stop! Just stop and listen!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Okay.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Charged tones]_ Yes, the bullet was bad, right, but it didn't *make* me angry. Anger is... Anger's been all I've had for a very long time. Years. Maybe since... oh, I, I don't know. But everything I've done, everything I pushed for was because I was angry.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Angry at being passed over, being disrespected, ignored. That sort of anger, it - it *powers* you. Right up until it slips out and hurts someone.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I **hurt** someone. And then one day, I suddenly have this thing that takes all that rage, and it holds it, tells me it's right, that it's **me**. It didn't stay in my leg because of some ghostly masterplan. It *stayed* because I wanted it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Realising]_ Shit.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Yes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Melanie, I -</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: So, why are you trying to chop off your finger?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Awkwardly]_ Oh! I... I um... I nee-need a... I've been thinking of it a-as an anchor. I think. I... know. Something I have a connection to, th-that I can use to find my way out of the Coffin when I reach Daisy. I-I figured the strongest anchor would be... part of my own body.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Okay. So... just cut it off.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm doing my best.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Hmph. Can't go through with it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, th-the blade keeps going in. And... it hurts. Hurts plenty.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But then it heals up. Pretty much the moment I take it out. No wound, no scar, nothing.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I could try?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I... don't think that would be a good idea right now.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Maybe not.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I mean, you'd think I'd have a better idea how to do it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: All these... all these statements and...</span>

##### [SMALL LAUGH]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You know who I need? I need the Boneturner. _[Sighs]_ Just reach in and grab a rib. Job done.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: ...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Melanie?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Come with me.</span>

##### [CLICK]

------

##### [CLICK]

##### [FOOTSTEPS ON STONE, VOICES SOUND ECHOEY]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I was down here just yesterday, and there wasn't - </span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh. This, this door... It shouldn't be here.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Yes.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, uh... I don't want to open it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm not going to.</span>

##### [MELANIE SIGHS, KNOCKS ON THE DOOR]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: She's been helping us.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Sharply]_ **It** has never helped anyone. Not without a cost.</span>

##### [THE DOOR CREAKS OPEN]

<span class="helen">HELEN: If I am an "it", Archivist, then what does that make you?</span>

##### [THE DOOR CREAKS CLOSED]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Hi, Helen.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Coldly]_ I have been told you can help.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: I have been trying to. But the last time you were very rude to me.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You're still wearing her face.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Not this again. I'm not "wearing" anything, Archivist. I am at least as much 'Helen Richardson' as you are the 'Jonathan Sims' that first joined this Institute. Things change. *People* change. It happens.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: We're not people, though, are we? Not any more.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Names. Categories. It's all so important to you, isn't it? You *do* know none of it's actually real. It's all just meaningless boxes.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Is... *He* still in there?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Oh, yes. He's not exactly something I can... digest. He's a bit of an irritant, to be honest. If you're looking to let him out, I could be persuaded.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: When did you say they attacked?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: A couple of months ago.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And he's been in there... ever since?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: I helped clean up.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: After I, uh... took care of things.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: All this time. Why didn't anyone tell me?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Basira said not to.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I see.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Why didn't you kill him?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: **I** stabbed him in **three** different hearts. Didn't work. If you want to go hunting for a fourth, knock yourself out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I...er... I'm alright, I think </span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: So, what's the plan?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. I go in, I offer freedom if he... helps. Then I hope he doesn't kill me. If he tries anything...</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: I would suggest running. Try to find a door.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Naturally.</span>

##### [DEEP BREATH]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, er... Er, pass the recorder?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Seriously? Fine.</span>

##### [RECORDER IS PASSED TO THE ARCHIVIST]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right.</span>

##### [THE DOOR CREAKS OPEN]

##### [FOOTSTEPS]

##### [THE DOOR CREAKS CLOSED]

##### [ECHOES &amp; STATIC AS THE ARCHIVIST WANDERS THE DISTORTION'S CORRIDORS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Hello?</span>

##### [MORE WALKING]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Is, uh... Uh, hello?</span>

##### [KEEPS WALKING]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Did I -</span>

##### [SOFT SQUELCHING STEPS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No. W-Wait... I came from...</span>

##### [WET, FLESHY MOVEMENT AND CRACKING BONES]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Er, J-Jared Hopworth?</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: That's what it says on me licence.</span>

##### (Transcriber's Note: Jared's speech is accompanied by continuous sounds of wet, mobile meat and the occasional bony snap or click. Too much for me to record individually. Just try to imagine that as you're reading... if you care to, that is.)

<span class="jared">JARED: Mind you, the picture's a bit out of date.</span>

##### [WET, MEATY LAUGH]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Y-yes.</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: I try to kill you. And you throw me in here. And now what? You just walk in?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I didn't- That wasn't me.</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: Your people. Your *gaff.*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And you wanted to kill... *me,* specifically?</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: Still do.</span>

##### [OMINOUS SHIFTING, CRACKING &amp; POPPING]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. But... you know if you do, you're never getting out of this place.</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: ...</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: What do you want?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, uh... I want a favour.</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: For letting me out?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes.</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: Alright.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh. O-Okay. D-Do you need to know... w-what it is?</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: Not much you could want, comin' to me. Put summat in. Take summat out. Which is it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Take something out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: A bone. A rib, probably. S-Something I won't miss.</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: Done. Come 'ere.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, uh... H-How do I know you won't just reach in and kill me? W-W-What guarantees do I have?</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: Guarantees? None. But I want to leave more than I want to kill you. Not like it was my idea in the first place.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Compellingly]_ Why did you and the others attack us?</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: I was asked. You want my statement, that's gonna cost you another rib.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I-I could just pull the information out of you.</span>

##### [MENACINGLY MEATY MURMURS]

<span class="jared">JARED: You could try.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Okay. Fine. A rib for me, a rib for you, your freedom and a statement.</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: Yeah. Alright.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. Statement first.</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: ...</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: Fine.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh. Statement of Jared Hopworth, the Boneturner.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement begins.</span>

##### [THROATY LAUGH]

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): Where do you want me to start? Growing up? My folks? How 'bout that growth spurt when I was nine? It left me taller than all the other kids. I hated them, the way they stared. But they were, and that felt good, even back then. It felt right. My Dad was proud of it too. He was a short man, bully, and watching me loom over people really made 'im happy. Mum just scowled, but then... huh, she always did.</span>

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): I *wrecked* my school. I did have friends, but they left me, one by one, until all that I had were the dregs; the ones who stayed 'coz they were too scared to leave. We were always either in trouble, or looking for it. Those were bad times. I tried to look ahead, but I couldn't see anything. No future, no hope; just bitter parents, and whatever misery I could pass on to everyone else. God knows what would've happened if that little prick Sebastian hadn't given me that book.</span>

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): I didn't know what it was at first, not really. But it talked to me about bones and flesh and muscle and blood; the bits of myself I actually knew and liked. So I listened, and I read, and I learned. I fumbled through the lessons the book wanted to teach me, and my first try was clumsy. Stupid. Turns out, Dad didn't like being tall nearly as much as he thought he would. And Mum didn't like her new smile, either. So I left.</span>

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): I wandered around for a bit. Worked a lotta jobs where it didn't matter what you looked like. There's always a spot for someone who can get rid of people. You must have heard about me. I left plenty of people scared and crying, itching to tell someone what happened to 'em. Some of them must have made it to you.</span>

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): There were others. Others of skin and hunger; they tried to talk to me about gods. They'd go on and on about remaking the world; of a new day of blood and flesh. I told them to piss off. I like the world just as it is. I take what I want and I make myself more, and when people look at me... that fear - it feels amazing. Some of my mates, the ones I helped find their proper bodies, they listened, and went to feed the hunger. Not me though. I never was that ambitious.</span>

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): The letters started comin' in about two years ago. Good white paper, large print. Nice and simple. Dunno who sent them, they were never signed, and I dunno how they kept finding me. There was never much in them; normally just a name and a place or a time. I ignored the first couple, but they kept coming, and eventually I got curious. So, I followed the instructions in one of 'em. I found Regan Hasnain of 70 Clairmont Gardens, and that got rid of most of my doubts. I don't blame people for thinking that all bones are the same, most people don't have much experience, but it's not true. There are good bones, and there are bad bones, and Regan Hasnain had some very good bones in her. They were solid, healthy, and they jumped at my touch. I didn't doubt the letters again.</span>

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): They came pretty regular after that. And they always led to summat good. Quality bones, a new mate, or some unlucky fool who wouldn't look at me for the fear. It got so I trusted them. The letters, I mean. So I didn't question them. There's a lotta stuff in this world I've never understood, and these were no different. Then I got one about your lot, your Archives. Told me to go there and kill you. They even sent a picture.</span>

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): So I did. Well, I tried. Didn't know about those tunnels or wherever this place is, but the pipes... they were wide enough for me and a few friends to squeeze through, bit by bit, one bone at a time.</span>

##### [DEMONSTRATIVE CRACKING ACCOMPANIES THIS]

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): When we came up through the floor, it was wonderful. I don't think I'll ever forget the look on their faces. It was like their world had gone with the floor. The weak one legged it, and I thought the skinny one did too. There was just the copper. It weren't dressed like one, but I know police when I smell it. They tried to run, but we were everywhere, and they couldn't stop us undoing them for parts. You weren't there, which was sad, but it made it easier.</span>

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): At least until the knife. I don't know what the skinny one did, what she was, but that knife **hurt**. She screamed, and stabbed, and cut through all the others, ruining their perfect bodies. Then, she turned on me. Reached out with some of my hands, to get inside her, and pull her apart, and she cut them off. I got... scared. So I ran. I ran through the first door I found. And now I don't know where I am.</span>

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): I'm startin' to think the letters were a trap. Was it you? Did you want me here? 'Coz if so, well played. Mind you, lot of trouble to go through just to lose a rib, so maybe not.</span>

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): That's it, then.</span>

<span class="statement jared-statement">JARED (STATEMENT): Do you want to do this, or what?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: That's it?</span>

##### [HE SNORTS]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Hardly worth a rib.</span>

##### [JARED LOOMS FORWARD]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Placatingly]_ Alright! Alright.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Is it, uh... Is is going to hurt?</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: Dunno. Doesn't hurt me.</span>

##### [THE ARCHIVIST MAKES IT BE KNOWN THAT IT DOES RATHER]

##### [EXTENDED SOUNDS OF MEAT AND BONE MOVEMENT]

<span class="jared">JARED: That's yours. What's it for?</span>

##### [PAINED SOUNDS OF RECOVERY]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Stumblingly]_ Um... A, A-An anchor </span>

<span class="jared">JARED: Huh. Right.</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: Anyway, this one's for me.</span>

##### [MORE MOBILE MEAT NOISES, THIS TIME OF INSERTION]

<span class="jared">JARED: Huh. That's a weird one. Not sure I like it. Still. Mine now.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Weakly]_ I supp... I suppose it is.</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: You said I could leave.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Y-yes. Just, uh... I-If you start walking that way, I-I-I'm sure there'll be a door for you.</span>

<span class="jared">JARED: There'd better be.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Y-Y-Yes, I, uh...</span>

##### [COLLAPSES]

##### [CLICK]

------

##### [CLICK]

<span class="helen">HELEN: Still alive?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Seems to be, yes.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: And he's certainly holding *a* bone. For some reason.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Said it was going to be an anchor.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Hmm. Bodies are strange. Rather glad they're not my concern anymore.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Must be nice.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: It really is.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: ...</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Did you let that... *thing* go?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: He found a door.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _[Alert]_ Where did he come out?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: The door may have been in a wall some distance above a river.</span>

##### [MELANIE CHUCKLES]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Nice.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _[Groggy]_ It... um?</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: All done.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh...</span>

##### [WINCES]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Thank you. For your... uh. For your help.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: You are very welcome. I have decided that I support what you are doing, and I am happy to assist. I think we'll all be much happier this way.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Basira's not going to be happy that you let him out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Basira isn't here.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And if this works, I'll have Daisy waiting for her when she gets back, so I don't think she'll be thinking too much about Jared.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: You're going now?</span>

##### [PAINED CHUCKLING]

##### [PAINED BREATHING]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No. No, now I am going for a lie down. That was... that was not what I expected.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Come on, you can use Basira's cot.</span>

<span class="helen">HELEN: Good luck, Archivist. Be seeing you.</span>

##### [CLICK]