---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG122 - #0150102 - Zombie"
date:            2019-01-16 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Lorell St. John, Basira Hussain, Georgina Barker, Oliver Banks, The Archivist, Peter Lukas, Melanie King, Martin Blackwood, Antonio Blake, Danielle, Liam, Norma, Tape Recorders, Identity, Universities, Public Transit, Sociopathy, Thanatophobia, Scopophobia, The End, The Eye]
statement_of:    [Lorell St. John]
recorder:        [The Archivist]
voiced:          [Basira Hussain, Georgina Barker, The Archivist]
episode_title:   Zombie
episode_number:  '122'
case_number:     '0150102'
statement_date:  2015-02-01
recording_date:  
event_date:      
summary:         "Statement of Lorell St John, regarding zombies. Original statement given 1st February 2015."
content_flags:   [body horror, mortality, undead, stalking, existential horror, imposter, isolation, unreality, solipsistic delusion, psychopathy]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag122-zombie
pdf:             https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qGAAGcUDmG9VaRU2p-eunrDn9d3_0iqM/view?usp=sharing
accessible_pdf:  
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hiJc1bOPVAWoPZFp5M6jndza_Ta59-b-jfzUIOa77wg/edit?usp=sharing
official:        false
unofficial:      https://tmatranscripts.tumblr.com/post/183016022226/mag122zombie-1pdf
unofficial_name: tmatranscripts.tumblr.com
wiki_url:        https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_122:_Zombie
---

##### [INT. HOSPITAL, JON'S ROOM]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [The clock of the hospital room ticks on steadily in the background.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Well?</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: It was just there!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Could he have come back? Moved it?</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: I guess?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: And you're sure you didn't recognize him.</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: No, no- he was, um- I'd never seen him before.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: But?...</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: He, uh, he felt like death.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: What, capital 'D' Death?</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: Yeah. Y'know, one of your... dark gods -</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _(frustrated)_ They're not -</span>

##### [She cuts herself off.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA (CONT'D): Look, I'm trying to help. You came to me.</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: I came to Melanie.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Well sorry. Right now, I'm it.</span>

##### [Silence, but for the clock.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA (CONT'D): So Jon told you, then.</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: Some of it. Not - everything.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Right. So how exactly is it that you're able to identify an avatar of the End on sight?</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: Honestly Basira, it's not your business. _(pause)_ Sorry.</span>

##### [Basira sniffs.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Alright. And you don't know why this guy would have left a tape recorder?</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: You're the detective.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: And you're sure it was him who left it?</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: I mean - the nurses said there were no other visitors, so _(breath)_ unless it appeared by magic?</span>

##### [Pause.]

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE (CONT'D): _(disbelief)_ What, seriously?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: I don't know. The whole tape thing is... I don't know.</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: Right, well... I showed you like you asked, so -</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Shh.</span>

##### [Rustling as she moves down, getting closer to the tape recorder.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA (CONT'D): Down here.</span>

##### [More rustling.]

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: I *told* you -</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: This is the one?</span>

##### [We hear the Archivist breathing hoarsely, quietly in the background.]

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: Sure.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: You don't *sound* very sure.</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: I mean - I don't know. It might be a different model maybe? I thought it was *plastic* - but yeah.</span>

##### [More Archivist breathing/sighing as she's speaking; by the time she's done the room is silent but for the clock again.]

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE (CONT'D): So - what does it mean?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(hoarse, tired, drained)_ That's a very good question.</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: _(overlapping)_ Jon!</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: _(overlapping)_ Jesus.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(bit of a dry laugh)_ Sorry. _(breath)_ Didn't mean to scare you.</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: _(overlapping)_ I'll get a nurse.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Wait.</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: *Basira!*</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Jon, is it still... you?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uhh. Y-yes. Y-yes, I-I think so; I, I don't know how you'd prove it, though.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Hm.</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: E*nough* - just - stay still; I'll get a nurse.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, no, I, uh, _(he starts to sit himself up)_ I'm alright, it's -</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: _(overlapping)_ *Stop it!*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(overlapping)_ - I'm *okay*.</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: Jon, you are *not* okay; you have been in a coma.</span>

##### [Rustling.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Wait - wait - how long?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Six months, give or take.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Six... Uh, the others. T-Tim. Is he...?</span>

##### [Silence.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Oh.</span>

##### [He lets out a breath.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Daisy too.</span>

##### [Pause.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm sorry.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah.</span>

##### [Pause.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Alright - g -</span>

##### [Sounds of exertion- trying to sit up further?]

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: *Jon.*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It's alright.</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: Stay still. Please.</span>

##### [The Archivist sighs, then takes a shaky breath.]

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE (CONT'D): How are you feeling?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Honestly, I - I, I think I'm alright.</span>

##### [Georgie sighs in exasperation.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): I mean that's - *good*, right?</span>

##### [Georgie sighs again.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): I -</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: After a six month coma? No - it's not. This isn't how it's supposed to go, Jon.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I - what? Y-y-you'd prefer I was - brain-damaged? *Dead?*</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Jon.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(shaky sigh)_ *W,W,What?*</span>

##### [Pause, Basira sighs.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Georgie, could you give us a minute? There's some things we should probably discuss.</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: _(overlapping)_ *Fine.*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: D - Georgie, I -</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: Jon. If this really is a second chance, *please* try to take it. But I don't think that it is.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(breath)_ Georgie, I *don't* underst -</span>

<span class="georgie">GEORGIE: Take care of yourself.</span>

##### [The Archivist lets out another shaky breath. Georgie leaves, closing the door behind her.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Wh - I - _(sigh)_ _(quicker)_ What about you? *Disappointed* to see me alive? Basira?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: We can deal with it later.</span>

##### [The Archivist sighs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(small)_ Yeah.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(breath)_ Yeah, okay.</span>

##### [More heavy breathing.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Do you want me to grab you some water, or...?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No - ah, the, the, uh, the statement. In your, in your bag.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Oh. Yeah, I uh, _(unzips her bag)_ I just grabbed one on the way out; I thought maybe you'd need it for -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(overlapping, quick)_ You, you were right - I, I think it would do me some good. Do you have a tape re - Oh.</span>

##### [He sighs.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: How did you know I brought one? _(pause)_ Right.</span>

##### [The Archivist sighs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Thank you, Basira.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Hm.</span>

##### [She leaves, and we catch a whiff of hallway bustle as the door shuts behind her. Jon lets out another deep sigh.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement of uh, _(something catches in his throat, he swallows)_ Uh, Lorell St. John regarding, uh... _(huh)_ _(disbelief)_ ...zombies. Original statement given 1st February, 2015. Recording by _(labored breath)_ Jonathan Sims. The Archivist.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement begins.</span>

##### [As he reads the statement, his voice slowly, incrementally starts to improve.]

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): People always used to tell me I was... solipsistic. They said that I- never really *engaged* with other people, never acted like they really existed, or mattered, at least not in the same way that I did. I suppose in, in many ways they were right. It's hard to explain without sounding stupid.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Obviously other people are real - _(stammering)_ O-obviously, the, the way a building is real, or my watch is real. They exist. If people weren't real, I'm sure I'd find them much less of a chore.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): So no, I don't not believe in other people. I just find it very difficult to *feel* for others, I, I can't understand them, and they've always seemed...oh there's no tactful way to say it- they've always seemed... pointless. I know what my pain feels like, and I know what my joy feels like, but when I see those same things on the faces of my friends, or my enemies, I feel... Well that's it, isn't it? I don't really feel anything. Their emotions and suffering feel as distant to me as a character on a movie screen. More distant, really.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I-In many ways I find those crude characters that wander through ridiculous plot after ridiculous plot more relatable than the people watching next to me. That said, Danielle did tell me once that films tended to depict characters like that so it's easier to project yourself onto them. So maybe it isn't quite as surprising as all that. I like animals, too. They don't pretend to be important. So, assuming you can understand anything, I would hope that you could understand why the philosophical concept of zombies might worm its way into my mind.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Danielle studies philosophy. W-Well, she *studied* philosophy. And she was one of those people who loved to talk to other people about it, try to explain it as a way of internalizing the information, so come exam season, her favorite revision method was to try and explain a year's worth of dusty old white men thinking about existence to me.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): She said it really helped, and, well - sometimes I didn't have anything better to do. It never stuck, of course; it's all kind of rubbish, really- people trying to *think* the universe into making sense, coming up with all sorts of *nonsense* and trying to claim that 'if you can imagine it it must be true.' I'm, I'm grossly oversimplifying, of course, but I don't care. I don't think Danielle did very well in her exams.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I remember the night she told me about zombies. It was dark outside and must have been late. It was high summer, and the days were long. And sweltering. Our building really kept the heat, and had very few opening windows, so even in the evening that humid warmth seemed to stick around. One of our housemates, Liam, was sat at the other end of the living room, playing some obnoxious video game. He had the lights at that end of the room turned off, and the screen lit up his blank, gormless face as he stared at some space monster or other that he had to kill.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Danielle explained that a philosophical zombie is someone who outwardly displays all the signs of life and consciousness: they talk; they laugh; they scream; they even appear to think. But they have no inner life at all, no actual subjective experience. It's all a, a rule, a, a conjuring trick. If you cut them, they'd bleed, they might even cry out, but they wouldn't actually feel any pain, because they can't actual *feel* anything. It's all just an act.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): _(laughing)_ I said to Danielle, "Like Liam," a-and she laughed, at what she assumed was a funny joke, and tried to explain it again, told me they weren't *real*, that it was all a, a thought experiment, and the fact that you could imagine them was supposed to counter some other philosopher, who sounded equally meaningless.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): But, like I said, I don't think she got a very good grade, and looking at Liam, blankly staring into that glowing square on the wall, I, I knew she was wrong. They were real. His eyes were so dark, and - dull. Empty windows to a soul that- he didn't really have.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I started to do some... experiments on him. N-not many, just a few little ones here and there to... see. I suppose you might've called them cruel, if Liam was capable of suffering; he certainly pretended to cry out in pain when I *accidentally* cut his hand while chopping onions, and he did a good impression of grief when his fish died. But his eyes were always the same: cold. And empty.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I didn't *do* anything about it, obviously; what was the point? There was no real harm in him going out into the world *pretending* to live his life; it was no skin off my nose, certainly.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It wasn't just him, though. There were... so many more of them out there. At one point I did legitimately entertain the notion that they might *all* be zombies. Every one. That it was just me. That I was the only real person that existed. But, no, that wasn't right; it was just certain people; I watched their reactions, the emotions they didn't quite get right, and I *knew* they were a facade.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It became like a game to me. Watching out for those... soulless husks. Whether on the bus, the street, or even meeting a client for work, I would look into their eyes for just a second, and see the emptiness inside. I tried to make it a game, at least. The truth was, they scared me very deeply. What were they? How did it happen; were they- born hollow, or did something scoop them out, leave them like that?</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): And the question that kept me up, staring into the darkness late at night- why did it seem like I was the only one able to see them? I saw so many people, *real* people, chatting with these *zombies*, talking to them as if they were able to understand what was being said to them, rather than simply pretending. How was it that they couldn't see the quiet void that lurked behind each of their smiles. And there seemed to be more and more of them every day. Sometimes I found myself utterly alone. Facing down a room full of nothing eyes, willing myself to take action.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I never did, though. Not even when one of them started following me. I first saw him in the street; it wasn't difficult to guess what he is; half the people around him were just as hollow and soulless. But there was something else, to him. He was tall. But not so tall as to stick out. Thin, but not unhealthily so. He wore a blue t-shirt despite the falling temperature, and his short, dark hair and pale skin surrounded a smile so fake, it practically glowed.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): He stared at me as I walked past, not making a move to follow or stop me; nor did his eyes seem to actually... move. It was like one of those paintings that watch you; it just seemed that whatever place I looked at him from, he just happened to be focused on me. In as much as there was any focus in them at all. Vacant.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The next day he was there again, this time in the hallway outside my office, standing in the center, so that I had to hug the wall to avoid touching his... motionless form. He was identical. Except that his t-shirt was now a dull orange.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I asked my colleague Norma what she thought of him, why he was there, and if she noticed anything strange about him. She looked out into the corridor, then, back at me and shook her head. She told me he seemed normal enough. But her eyes were like blank pits, and I knew she was lying about all of it.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Had he done this? Had he taken Norma's..s-self, h-her soul, or... or had she *always been a zombie? * Cramped, into a little open-plan desk, patiently listening to client complaints, and I just hadn't *noticed*? I looked around my office, a low dread starting to build as he waited outside. A numbing cavity *wrapped in skin.*</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I tried to talk to him, when he stood next to me on the bus. I played as casual as I could, trying not to seem afraid when I asked him how his day was going.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "Just fine, thank you for asking," came the flat, uninterested response.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Then I, I asked him his name. "Just fine, thank you for asking," he said.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I have never wanted anything as much as I wanted in that moment to *cut* him, and see if he pretended to scream in pain.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): By the time he appeared outside my house, this time wearing a rotten green t-shirt, I could *feel* a numbness in myself even as I looked at him. Was I finally becoming like them? My internal world melting away into nothing but a *pantomime?* I remember I ran at him, all my rage burning inside my chest as though desperate to remind myself that I could still feel something.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I think I might have been screaming, but the memory is fuzzy. I remember I punched him in the face, though. When my fist connected, it was like punching a canvas. Taught, dry, and - yielding, ever so slightly, until all at once it broke with a tearing pop and all that resistance was gone, my fist falling into the empty space behind it.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Inside his head, I-I pulled my hand back in sudden disgust, and he looked at me, through the torn and bloodless hole in his head. I could see one blank eye hanging down off his face, still following me, as his split mouth moved to try and form the words that I could hear clear as day: *"Just fine, thank you for asking."*</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): They're all like that now. *You're* all like that, I suppose. I have no *reason* to believe anyone will - _(sharp breath)_ - read this who would be any different, no reason to believe- _(same breath)_ - you'll be *able* to read this, that you won't simply stare blankly at this page before - performing your response, your artificial opinion. There is every chance that I am -the only one left. And the whole world has fallen to a - soulless horde, devoid of life and feeling. Even so, thank you for.. pretending to care.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Statement ends.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(sigh)_ Well that - _(breath)_ - certainly helped, I think. No notes or - followup in the statement, and... _(dry laugh)_ obviously no research done by myself or, uh... my team. I think we can safely say that Ms. Saint-John is not the only person left in the world, though, whatever _(inhale)_ she might be doing now. And whatever might be with her.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: They can be hard, though, other, other people. Feelings. I-I'm - I'm trying to focus, trying to make sure I'm the same me as before, but... how can anyone really remember that? How do you know you're the same person that went to sleep?</span>

##### [He sighs.]

##### [Then there's a faint knock-knock-knock on the door.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): _(quiet)_ Oh. _(calling)_ Ah - Uhh, yes - I'm done.</span>

##### [The door opens, we catch a glimpse of the hallway bustle. The Archivist takes a shaky breath.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Georgie, is she, um -</span>

##### [He sighs.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: She's gone. Didn't see where.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, I, I wouldn't have, uh.</span>

##### [He sighs again.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Probably for the best.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah.</span>

##### [Pause.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA (CONT'D): Better?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes. Yes, thank you.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Right. Then I've got questions.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So do I.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Me first. What are you?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I - _(sigh)_ _(shaky inhale)_ Honestly? I don't know. I don't *feel*... inhuman, or... I want to say I'm the same. But I don't-really know if that's true. I *know* I'm different. I feel... more real, somehow.</span>

##### [Basira hms, unimpressed.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: So what does that *actually* mean?</span>

##### [The Archivist sighs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Probably nothing good.</span>

##### [Pause. He takes another, long shaky inhale.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): My turn. What happened to me?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: How much do you remember?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I don't... Music. Everything was wrong. Gertrude was there, and then... dancing, I think. Then, pain. And I was somewhere else. Dreaming.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Dreaming.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yes. _(pause)_ ...You're... sure, a-about Tim.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah, they um... They found his remains a few days later.</span>

##### [Pause.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And- Daisy?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: They still haven't found her body. Probably never will. I thought for a while she might, um... _(she sniffs)_ But, it's been months. She's gone.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Just you and me. And - Melanie and M-Martin, I, I guess. _(breath)_ Honestly, I'm surprised Martin isn't -</span>

##### [Basira takes a deep breath.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): What? _(realizing)_ Oh god - the, the plan, it's - Martin i-is - is he okay, w-what - _(he takes a breath to compose himself)_ *What did Elias do?*</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: No, nothing. Elias isn't the problem.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: So - what?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Elias is locked up.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Wait, Martin's plan worked?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah. A bunch of sectioned officers took him in. He made some sort of deal, I think, but he's not getting out anytime soon.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh. _(pause)_ Wow, uh - o-okay, so - what's the problem?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: He appointed an interim director. Guy named Peter Lukas. Apparently he's a podcast character.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I've read about him.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah, I've hunted down some of those old statements, and - _(small sigh)_ Yeah.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: ***What did he do to Martin?***</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: I... don't know. We don't see him around the Archives much these days. Best I can figure? He's working on something with Lukas.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, that - _(breath)_ No, that - that - There must be something else.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Maybe. I don't know.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And Melanie?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: A lot's happened, while you've been gone.</span>

##### [The Archivist sighs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. _(sigh)_ Well I guess we should probably let one of the nurses know I'm awake. _(sigh)_ I'm sure they've got all sorts of - tests to do, make sure I'm not a - zombie, or... _(hah)_ I don't suppose you brought in any - clothes?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: No, I just, you know, grabbed that statement on my way out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right, well, uh - I kept some in the - uh - Archives, uh, in my office.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Yeah, those got um - we had to throw those out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Like I said, a lot's happened.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: S-since I've been - _(inhale)_ Fine.</span>

##### [He lets out a deep exhale.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA: I'll get you some new ones. Better ones.</span>

##### [Pause.]

<span class="basira">BASIRA (CONT'D): Anything else?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(swallows)_ Water, please.</span>

<span class="basira">BASIRA: Sure thing.</span>

##### [She opens the door and leaves.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh, or, uh, a cup of t -</span>

##### [The door falls shut.]

##### [Long pause. The Archivist sighs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): _(almost a whisper)_ Okay. _(sigh)_</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): End recording, I suppose.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]