---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG154 - #0082107 - Bloody Mary"
date:            2019-09-19 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Eric Delano, Gertrude Robinson, Mary Keay, Gerard Keay, Martin Blackwood, The Archivist, Michael Shelley, Emma, The Skin Book, Direct Statements, The Eye, The Lonely, The End, Scopophobia, Isolophobia, Thanatophobia]
statement_of:    [Eric Delano]
recorder:        [Direct]
voiced:          [Eric Delano, Gertrude Robinson, Martin Blackwood, The Archivist]
episode_title:   Bloody Mary
episode_number:  '154'
case_number:     '0082107'
statement_date:  2008-07-21
recording_date:  2008-07-21
event_date:      
summary:         "Statement of Eric Delano, recorded 21st July 2008. Regarding his life, Mary Keay and the Archives.\nAudio recording by Gertrude Robinson"
content_flags:   [Murder, Physical violence, Domestic abuse, Self-inflicted wounds]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag154-bloodymary
pdf:             https://drive.google.com/file/d/1o9ZT1HbW15STuRmTX1GuLB9ZhN2-w6i-/view
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hiK7BbV7wwXivtZT49iUprPiCBKIXPWjFbkt5cDkOtQ/edit
official:        false
unofficial:      https://tmatranscripts.tumblr.com/post/187820008016/mag154-bloody-mary-case-0082107pdf
unofficial_name: tmatranscripts.tumblr.com
wiki_url:        
---

##### [INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, ARCHIVIST'S OFFICE]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(sigh)_ Hm. _(sharp inhale)_ I've, uh, I've been doing a lot of thinking after what happened with Daisy last week. About- what I can do. What I am. What feels- right.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I found a- erm, I went back to Eli- Peter's office, to that box of tapes, started rifling through. And I started to pay attention to the ones I... *wasn't* drawn to. The tapes I instinctively wanted to discard.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: There was one, this one, that my hand... pulled back from. I dropped it, twice, when I went to pick it up. Even now, I'm... _(slight quaver to his voice)_ struggling to hit play.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I am the avatar of awful knowledge and revealed secrets, so what does it *not*want me to know?</span>

##### [Long sigh.]

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


------


##### [INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, ARCHIVIST'S OFFICE, 2008]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: _(sharp sigh)_ Right. No use putting it off further.</span>

##### [We hear the rustle of paper. Gertrude begins to read.]

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: "When he opened his eyes, he saw nothing, but he heard her breathing, slow and steady and focused, and he immediately knew that she was finally going to- _(slight stumble)_ -kill him. When the garden shears plunged into his chest, he was surprised by how little actual pain there was- just the sudden feeling of moisture on his chest and the realization that his body was growing weak, fading away.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: He wished she would say she was sorry she was doing this, that she loved him, that she would miss him. But he knew better, and his final thought was a gentle sadness at how little he was surprised."</span>

##### [As she reads, a static begins, first a relatively standard crackling, that soon evolves into a deeper, more whooshing sound.]

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: "And so Eric Delano ended."</span>

##### [The whooshing sound forms more clearly into a shaking breath.]

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: ...Eric?</span>

<span class="eric-delano">ERIC DELANO: Gertrude, I- Wha- What am I doing here?</span>

##### [Following every word he speaks is an echo, light and airy and ghostly. His voice itself is soft, almost comforting in its monotony.]

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Mary. She gave me your page.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: She!- Oh.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Yes. Well. I'm sorry.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Wasn't even hard for her, was it? Handing me over? No sign of regret.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: _(still a bit shaky)_ No.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: No.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I'm sorry, Eric; I know this must be hard- I just read your death. I didn't realize it would quite so...</span>

##### [She trails off, flaps the page at him.]

<span class="eric">ERIC: You should have seen what she did to my body afterwards.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Did *you?*</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Oh, yes. She bound me afterwards and made me watch. Don't know why. Wasn't really in the best state to ask. Maybe she just wanted some company.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: ...While she disposed of your body?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: God, I was a mess. I mean, part of me kind of suspected she'd killed before, but clearly she hadn't done it enough to be a decent hand at chopping up and dumping bodies. _(heh.)_ She was having a real hard time of it. My legs were all over the shop. _(long inhale)_ Would probably have been funny, if it hadn't been me.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: What's it like? Being bound to the book?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I don't know how to describe it. Never was great with words.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Bad. It feels bad. All the time.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I know that I'm not really Eric; I'm just a memory someone wrote down. It hurts, most of the time. I don't like it.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: But, you're still here.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I suppose. Mary used to get me up to bounce ideas off of. Talk through her thoughts and theories. Never listened to me, obviously, but _(light, pointed)_ nothing new there.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Well, it's good to see you. I suppose.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: You too. _(beat)_ You got *old*.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Better than being dead.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: _(short sigh of a laugh)_ Fair enough. To be honest, I'm impressed, more than anything. Hard to get old in this business. You either die, or you, uh, stay young. _(short, uncomfortable pause)_ ...How did Mary look?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: _(same sort of short laugh)_ She got old, too.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: S'pose that makes sense. And Gerry? Have you seen my son?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: No; I've never met him, I'm afraid. Mary talks of him a lot. Well, she seems very proud.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: That's...not as reassuring as you think it is.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I see your point.</span>

##### [Short pause.

<span class="eric">ERIC: Why did she give me to you?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I- I **don't know.** She seemed to think it was a gift.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Mm, charming.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: She said she had one final mystery to explore. With the book.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Oh. *Oh.* You know what that means, don't you?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I have a pretty strong suspicion, yes.</span>

##### [Eric *heh*s.]

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: What?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Oh, just thinking. Five years as her husband, god knows how many as her possession, and she just couldn't stand being bound in the same book as me.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Hm. I'm sorry.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Yeah, it doesn't feel great. But being dead, I s'pose you don't feel things quite as strongly. Little bit- flat.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I'm aware of the heartbreak, but I don't know if I actually feel it. It's strange, really.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Yes. Yes, it sounds it.</span>

##### [Eric takes a slow, deep breath.]

<span class="eric">ERIC: So what now?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I'm not entirely sure. I was probably going to burn you, if you're amenable to the idea.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: ...Yes. Yes, I think that would be for the best.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I'm just trying to figure out if there was a reason she gave you to me. The way she was smiling... as if she was handing over a secret.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I don't know. _(sigh)_ Do you have any questions? Any unfinished business?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: _(heh-hm)_ Of course. When she killed you, there were plenty of outstanding cases and such, but nothing that would still be relevant.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Sorry, what do you mean?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Well, you were working on quite a few statements when she killed you.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Gertrude, I left the Archives months before she killed me.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: **What?** No. That's- That's not possible.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Of course. They didn't tell you. Why would they? Mary probably thought it was funnier if you didn't know, and Wright would have preferred you not to know. How is he, by the way?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: James? He died about twelve years ago. Elias is Head of the Institute now.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: *Elias?* Elias **Bouchard**, seriously?!</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Hm, he's changed a lot.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Must have!</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: So. What did they not want me to know?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I quit.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: You- Sorry, you **quit**?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Yeah. I figured out how.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I- I just assumed-</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: **How?**</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Well, that's it, isn't it? I suppose that's why she gave me to you. One final *screw you* to the Eye.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Eric. How did you quit?</span>

##### [Eric holds back.]

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: _(warning)_ Eric,</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: _(short laugh)_ Sorry. I just- _(laugh)_ I don't mean to be a *dick*, but- well, it's been a long time since I've had any sort of- leverage, I guess? Just a- little bit of power. It's kind of nice.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Are you going to tell me?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Thinking about it.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: *Think harder,*</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: You know, you were never actually all that nice to me when I worked for you, Gertrude. Not like Michael, or Emma.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: **_Eric,_**</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: What, you gonna threaten me? Look at me. Best I can currently hope for is to be burnt to ash. _(inhale, sharp sigh)_ I'm going to tell you, just- maybe there's a price?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: What do you want?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I don't know- I haven't had a chance to think.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: **Eric.**</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Fine! _(short pause)_ I want two things.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: _(impatient)_ I'm listening.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I want you to find my son. If Mary is- if she's *gone*, or worse, I want you to make sure he's alright.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: _(amused)_ Hm. I'm not exactly a mother figure.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: You could hardly do worse than *her*.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Hm. Fine. But I don't know what growing up with Mary has done to him. If he's... gone rotten, I can't promise anything.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I understand.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I suppose he might be useful.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: _(DRY AS THE SAHARA)_ Oh, sentimental as ever.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Hm. And the second thing?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I want to make my statement.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Is that really necessary?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I don't want to disappear on *her* terms. Or yours. I want to speak my piece, have it recorded.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: *Fine.* Tape's running.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Subject is Eric Delano, recorded 21st of July, 2008, regarding...</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: What else? Me, Mary, and the Archives.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: As you wish. Begin whenever you're ready.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: _(exhale)_ I'm almost not sure where to start, now it comes to it.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I always loved ghosts. They fascinated me. Not the rattling chains and horror part of it, of course, but the mystery, the promise of secret knowledge, of seeing something that no one else was privy to. A secret world that gripped my imagination.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: So when I finished my Masters in library science and saw a vacancy at the Magnus Institute, of all places, I jumped at the chance. The chance to pursue my passion and my career at the same time seemed like too good an opportunity to pass up! It was only an assistant archivist position, of course, but that was fine.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: A good entry position- I'd, I'd soon move on, I told myself.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Heh. *Yeah.*</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: And for the first few years, it was pretty much exactly the job I'd expected. Longer hours than I'd hoped, and the Archivist seemed less interested in doing her job than I was, but all told there were worse places to work.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Then I met *Mary.* She was like no one I'd met before in my life. She was *beautiful,* like a- like a shark is beautiful. Every moment she made was deliberate, sharp, and her eyes were always focused on something, always watching. And when she looked at me, I always felt afraid.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: But there was something else. Something *under* the fear. Something that made me feel very aware of all my blood. _(exhale)_ I don't know what she saw in me, not really. But when she walked up to me and told me that I was taking her to dinner, I couldn't help but nod.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I've always been- _(sheepish laugh)_ Well, now, I wouldn't call myself a *coward,* but I've never been in a fight. Never even been punched. Maybe it's- luck. Maybe it's the fact that I can never really bring myself to push back from people.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: And Mary pushed *so hard*. Harder, even, than you. And I let her, because she gave me something I had never before experienced: Danger.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: The things she taught me, had me do- I'd never known anything like it. Whenever I kissed her, it tasted like *blood*.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I knew what she was, I,I think. What she was capable of. But I convinced myself that I was safe, that she loved me. It made me feel special. That I was somehow protected from all the cold cruelty that she tried to keep hidden, but leaked out in so many ways.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I remember visiting her, shortly after she'd started her books business. I found her sitting opposite a corpse, a well-dressed middle-aged man who sat in a huge armchair she kept in the back office. She looked me in the eye and told me he was her uncle, prone to drink, making an unexpected visit, and had passed out in the chair. _(amused, wistful hm)_ I knew she didn't have an uncle. I knew the man was dead.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: She didn't lie to me because she expected me to believe her; she lied to me because she expected me to **obey** her. And I did. We rescheduled our date to the following day.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: But d'you know what the strange thing is? Despite the violence, death, even my own murder, I still don't feel like she... *betrayed* me. She was what she was. And I knew that. And even though I told myself that she would never harm *me-* of course not! I was her husband, her true love- even then, the only one lying was me.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: She never promised anything, not even in her vows. **She** never betrayed me. Not like you. She never played dumb when I was stalked by bloated, blood-soaked things, or told me I was imagining it when your friend Adelard dropped a screaming box into the Thames. She didn't try to keep me in the dark just so I wouldn't stop being useful; she never made me complicit in a thousand different nightmares, and lives ruined for the sick joy of some otherworldly voyeur.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Compared to that, I suppose a few murders were easier to stomach.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: But I couldn't be part of it. Not once Mary told me what was really going on.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I know what you say, what you *think* you're doing, saving the world one poor doomed soul at a time- I mean, I understand; I do. _(exhale)_ But I couldn't be a part of it. Not when I saw what happened to everyone else you involved.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I had to get out, to escape this place. I had a *son* to look after; he needed me!</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Or so I thought.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: And that's when *you* turned nasty, isn't it? When all your resources, they no longer want to serve your purpose. I suppose you didn't know there was a way out, a way to escape. But if you had, would you have told me?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC:  Mary, at least, played straight with me. She knew all about the Institute. And when we were married, when she was sure I could handle it, she laid it all out for me: the rituals, the Powers, all the messy little cogs of the games you play with the universe.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: She laid out her own plans as well, her dreams of power. In many ways, I suppose they were no better than yours. But at least *she* didn't bother to hide behind noble aims.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Maybe that's why I chose her, in the end. At least she was *honest*. _(pfft)_ Or perhaps I actually was afraid. Terrified of the crossroads where I'd found myself, and I chose the option I thought might keep Gerry safe.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: At least if I was home *with* him, I could perhaps soften the edges of his mother.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I suppose I never really understood. No matter how clear the situation was, how well it was explained to me, I just couldn't see the parts of it that I didn't want to.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Two years, I tried to figure out how to quit, how to leave this place. And when I finally did, when I felt the Watcher's grip slip away, it left me in such a state I was no longer useful to Mary, and... she did what Mary does. _(short laugh)_ It was fitting, I suppose. Even after everything, she made me taste blood one last time.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Well, thank you for that. I'll make sure it's stored somewhere- safe.</span>

##### [Eric inhales shakily.]

<span class="eric">ERIC: Right.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Something wrong?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I just- _(small sigh)_ I thought it would be more of a relief.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Mm. I'm sorry it wasn't as cathartic as you were hoping. But we had an agreement.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Yeah. I know.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: So. How did you do it? How did you quit the Archives?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: It was actually really simple. Not easy, but simple. _(heh)_ You'll kick yourself when I tell you.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: _(get on with it)_ O...kay...</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: You were almost there, you know, with your theory that James could watch us from any eye, even an illustration. What did *you* do? How did *you* sever that link?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: My God!</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: I left to avoid dragging my family, my son into this life, to *try* to look after him. But Mary decided that a newly blinded husband was simply too much of a burden.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Did you need to do anything special? Any... ritual, or...?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Just as long as they're useless. I went the extra mile, destroyed them completely, but- I'm sure you'll find something _(inhale)_ neater.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: A strong acid, precisely applied? That sounds more your style, *if* you decide to do it, that is.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: _(conflicted sound)_ Well, I don't know.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: No. It's not an easy sacrifice to make, is it?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I still have work to do.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Don't you always.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Yeah. Well, _(exhale)_ I think I'll rather do some research of my own, before the rather extreme step of blinding myself.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: It's the only way. Trust me, I tried them all.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Yes. I remember.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: So, was there anything else?</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: No. No, I don't think so.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: Then if you don't mind? I think I'd like to go away now.</span>

##### [Slightest of pauses.]

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Yes.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: I think that's probably for the best. You're certain burning will work?</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: If it doesn't, I'm sure you'll figure something out.</span>

<span class="gertrude">GERTRUDE: Then let's get it over with.</span>

<span class="eric">ERIC: If you see Mary again, tell her- _(beat)_ No. I guess there's not really anything else to say.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


------


##### [INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, ARCHIVIST'S OFFICE, PRESENT]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [The Archivist sighs heavily.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: *Fuck.*</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


------


##### [INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ????, LATER]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

##### [Typing sounds. A small sigh-cum-whistle.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(still typing)_ Oh. Hi. Hello again.</span>

##### [He keeps typing.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN (CONT'D): _(small laugh)_ Sorry pal, false alarm this time.</span>

##### [He stops typing.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN (CONT'D): _(sigh, voice darkens dramatically)_ Unless-*Peter.*</span>

##### [The clock ticks in the background]

<span class="martin">MARTIN (CONT'D): Look, Peter, I-</span>

##### [The door is thrown open. The Archivist bursts in.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Martin!</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(overlapping)_ Oh- _(voice more whispered)_ Jon! _(he drops something)_ God, don't *do* that!</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Sorry, I just-</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No, it's fine! I j- you just surprised me, that's- _(surprised)_ Jesus, you alright? You- You look like *hell*.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh! Uh, Ri, Right, I um, God, I get weak. Hungry, I guess, sort of. I,I've been trying to avoid, being, um- sticking to old statements? Thank you for your little *intervention*, by the way.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Look, I wouldn't have to if you'd hadn't been-</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(overlapping)_ Yes no, I know, I know; I'm sorry; that didn't come out right; honestly, thank you. It's been hell, but- I, I did need to hear it.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(pleasantly surprised)_ Oh, um. Uh,h, good. Are the others- helping?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(:)_)_)_)_ *Oh.* They've been keeping a, um, *very* close eye on me. _(half laugh)_ Well, that's not important- no, well, it *is* important, but it's, it's not why I'm here, I-</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Jon. Calm down. What do you *want?*</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I know. I know what you said, but I just- _(inhale)_ I think I've found a way for us to leave the Institute.</span>

##### [Brief pause.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: O- kay...?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah. But it's- _(heavy inhale)_ It's pretty drastic.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(hah)_ What, you going to gouge your eyes out, or something?</span>

##### [Beat.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN (CONT'D): _(gets it)_ *Fuck off*.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN (CONT'D): Right. _(unable to make words)_ Uh, uh, right, uh... _(groping for words continues)_ Erm... like, I mean... permanently? Or...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, I, I don't know; I suppose. I,If your vision comes back, the Beholding probably does as well- probably. But i-it's not like it's easy to only blind yourself temporarily anyways i- I-</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(weak)_ Uh, y,yeah, yeah, uh... H-Have you told the others, or?...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: No, you're the first.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Why?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh, because... because, because I trust you. I, I'm trying to think about what to do, and I... _(exhale)_ If I did try this, I don't want to do it alone. But we could leave here, you and me. Escape.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(weary)_ Jon. Don't do this.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Do what?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Make it *my* decision.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I'm not-</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I mean, _(mirthless laugh)_ Could you even survive at this stage? Is there anything else keeping you alive?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(squawk)_ Uh, I,I don't know. I don't- know. But... maybe it's worth it? The risk- y,you and me, together, getting out of here-</span>

##### [Martin sniffs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): -one way or another.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Jon.</span>

##### [He gives a small sigh.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(sharp exhale)_ No. No, o,of course, this was stupid; you have your own plans going on, don't you?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Just- Look, I *need* to see this thing through with Peter to the end. If, If what he's saying is even *half* true, I need to be there.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: But what if you *don't*? _(small exhale)_ We could just *leave*. I mean, whatever their plan is for me, I am damn sure that doing that isn't it. I'd derail everything- *we* could derail everything, and then just- *leave!*</span>

##### [When Martin laughs, all humorless and dry, it nearly sounds like he's crying.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: What?</span>

##### [Martin keeps laughing.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Nothing; It's just- _(one more laugh)_ It's just ironic, that's all.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: *Martin...*</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Who are you kidding, Jon? You're not going to do any of that.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I, I *could*.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(still brimming with false laughter)_ But you *won't*. That's why you came to *me,* isn't it?</span>

##### [The Archivist exhales.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN (CONT'D): You know I can't do it, not now; you don't want to blind yourself; you don't want to *die*; what you **want** is a reason to *not* do those things, so- you come to me.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN (CONT'D): Well, you're welcome. B,Because I can't follow you on this one.</span>

##### [The Archivist has been exhaling repeatedly during this performance.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: The Lonely's really got you, hasn't it?</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(no hesitation)_ You know, I think it always did.</span>

##### [Small pause.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(quiet)_ Maybe. _(beat)_ Well, I'll be here, if you ever need me.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(also quieter, softer)_ I hope so.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(faster)_ Just-don't-wait-too-long,okay?</span>

##### [He moves towards the door, sighs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): If you haven't already.</span>

##### [He opens the door, leaves. It shuts.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah. _(wearier)_ Yeah.</span>