---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG136 - #0120112 - The Puppeteer"
date:            2019-04-25 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Alison Killala, Neil Lagorio, Melanie King, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Melanie's Therapist, The Archivist, Annabelle Cane, Gabriel, Arachnophobia, Maniaphobia, The Web, The Spiral]
statement_of:    [Alison Killala]
recorder:        [The Archivist]
voiced:          [Melanie King, The Archivist, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Melanie's Therapist]
episode_title:   The Puppeteer
episode_number:  '136'
case_number:     '0120112'
statement_date:  2012-12-01
recording_date:  
event_date:      
summary:         "Statement of Alison Killala, regarding her time as friend and carer to special effects artist Neil Lagorio. Original statement given 1st December 2012. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, the Archivist."
content_flags:   [Degenerative illness, Puppets, Supernatural manipulation, Mental illness, Body horror]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag136thepuppetter
pdf:             https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-xvK-N9iu2PLjU7TnFUDSOPlkgaqZo54/view?usp=sharing
accessible_pdf:  
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jXDFgYbBuiPasowYdL-Ms9Kb8-wdkjQXw8m6dKtjrYk/edit?usp=sharing
official:        false
unofficial:      https://tmatranscripts.tumblr.com/post/184630562096/mag136-the-puppeteer-case-0120112pdf
unofficial_name: tmatranscripts.tumblr.com
wiki_url:        https://the-magnus-archives.fandom.com/wiki/MAG_136:_The_Puppeteer
---

##### [INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, ARCHIVES, JON'S OFFICE]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh - not really; I was just going to record a statement. Why?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Well... _(sigh)_ Daisy's been, um... I've been keeping her company, uh, while, while Basira's busy. She's, um...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(overlapping)_ Oh! No, I, uh, I know.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: *Well.* I've kinda got to... uh. _(inhale)_ I've got somewhere to be. Do you mind if - if she hangs around with...?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uh, I suppose - Not at all. She's very welcome.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Great.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: If you don't mind me asking - where are you off to?</span>

##### [Unfortunately for both of them, the Archivist's signature static rumbles low in the background as he speaks.]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Therapy. _(surprised inhale)_ Wait...</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh - Oh god, Melanie, I, I'm sorry; I didn't mean to -</span>

##### [Melanie lets out a very annoyed, very "not this again" sigh.]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: It's fine. I would have probably have told you eventually anyway.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: E-Even so, I shouldn't have - I -</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _(overlapping)_ *Just* forget it.</span>

##### [She sighs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It's good though. I-I'm glad you're getting help.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Yes, well. We'll see. _(inhale)_ There's a - a lot of crap therapists out there.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I guess. Still. I-It is a good step.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I suppose.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: You going to tell them the truth?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I don't know! _(long, steadying breath)_ It's all a bit - _(fwoo-phkush sound)_ - you know? Uh - C-Can we drop it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Of course.</span>

##### [Melanie opens the door and sticks her head out to call to Daisy.]

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: _(to Daisy)_ Uh yeah, he's - he's fine with it, so...</span>

##### [Daisy comes in.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Alright?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah, uh - are you okay?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yeah.</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: Right. So, anyway - I'm - I'm running late, so, uh - thank you.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Anytime.</span>

##### [Melanie leaves, closing the door behind her.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CON'T): You alright?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Asked me that already.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right. Sorry.</span>

##### [There's an uncharacteristic casual happiness to his words.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I didn't ask her to do that.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: B - I-I-I-It's fine.</span>

##### [Daisy exhales.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You're not *babysitting* me, alright? I know that's what the others think, sometimes, but that's not it; I just - don't like being on my own if I can help it. You know,flashbacks, panic attacks, the usual. _(breath)_ Just trying to avoid it if I can.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST : (I know, Daisy. I - I do.)</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(exhale)_ It's hard.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yeah, well. Don't let me get in your way.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Of course. _(clears his throat)_ Statement of Alison Killala, regarding her time as friend and carer to special effects artist Neil Lagorio. Original statement given 1st December 2012. Audio recording by Jonathan Sims, The Archivist. Statement begins.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I loved Neil. I might even have been *in* love with him; it's hard to say. When there are so many emotions caught up in a single person, when they're such a significant force in your life - it gets difficult to say what's really there at the heart of it.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): His work, his art, defined my early life, as his friendship defined the last twenty years of it. One of my earliest memories is cowering behind my mother, watching *Labyrinth of the Minotaur* on our tiny television, seeing the clay of the creature come alive and move in stop-motion. It terrified me. It thrilled me. It's - _(sigh)_ - a moment that's never completely left me. I've always had two passions: engineering and special effects. So naturally, the course of my life gradually led me towards working on animatronics. I don't - care about the other stuff, not really. A squib's a squib no matter how much you dress it up, and... makeup never really wowed me. Even pyrotechnics, while... impressive and visually spectacular... They just didn't give me the same sharp joy as making something that could move. That came alive, directed and controlled by *my* hand. I always felt Frankenstein should have been an engineer, not a medical student, as reading that book I couldn't help but see myself in that obsessions.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): But I suppose everyone's already done the monster as a robot, haven't they? _(heh)_</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): And none made it move as well as Neil did in 1975 when he worked on *Agents of Orion*. That was one of his movies that I went back to time and again. The way the robot moved, the weight and life he managed to give each clanking, hissing step. I was fourteen when I managed to hunt down a copy on Betamax, and I just watched that scene over and over again. I was already obsessed with Neil's work by then, mostly his sci-fi stuff from the late 70's - *Beyond Time, Under New York, The Crawling Ones* - all that sort of thing. His earlier stuff I certainly enjoyed, but... for all my fondness for that - animated Minotaur, his stop-motion work never really grabbed me like his animatronics.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): The way Neil tells it, he split from his partner Gabe in 1972, and sculpting for stop-motion had never really had the same charm after that.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "Besides," he always told me, "I'm a puppeteer at heart." And that was certainly true. Neil never really talked about his early life, but, sometimes, when the medication was kicking in, he would tell me about his training with puppets.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I could never figure out what performance school he learned at, or even if he went to one at all, but he would twist his fingers into all sort of bizarre, intricate shapes, until I could see the strings flowing over them.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): "We made them dance," he would say, wonder and nostalgia in his voice. "Oh, how we made them dance."</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Growing up an 80s cinephile and devotee of his art, I obviously had to learn to love horror. It wasn't just his work with John Carpenter, either. It was common knowledge that Neil was deliberately seeking out darker and - more grotesque works, though no one knew why. *Dead Sky*, *The Nightmare Children*, *Forty Winks* - they were all in this period of his career, which culminated of course with *Toy Shop.* While it's now regarded as a cult classic, I still remember the editorials of the time condemning it, and some even called it "the end of Neil Lagorio."</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I think it was too late to officially be a video nasty, but it was certainly referred to as such in the UK Press. He told me later that he just needed to get it out of his system, though I don't know if I entirely believed him.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Whatever the case, my own relationship with him started in 1992, on the set of *Jewel of the Amazon*, a mid-budget effects-driven Kevin Costner vehicle. I'd been working in the industry only a couple of years by that point, and while I'd always dreamed of working with *Neil Lagorio* someday, it wasn't - quite how I'd always pictured it. The production was rushed, the budget was stretched, the direction was... uninspired, and Neil seemed broadly miserable.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Despite this - or, maybe because of it - we became friends. I think we bonded on that shoot, sheltering from the rain for hours at a time, watching a soggy animatronic jaguar gradually start to rust. I had to fight every instinct inside me, everything that wanted to burst out in admiration for his work and his - profound effect on my life, but instead I chain-smoked and laughed, trying my best to come across as my hero's peer.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): What was Neil Lagorio like? The question is harder to answer than I always thought it would be. In so many ways, he was his work.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Conversations were usually about the current shoot, future projects, or the most recent films of anyone he considered worth his attention. He had no time for whatever the issue of the day was, and despised Hollywood gossip and anyone who dealt in it.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I will say that there was no... warmth to him. At all. He was not unpleasant or cruel, but beyond that you may as well have been talking to one of his steel-and-hydraulic creations.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): There were two sorts of people in the world as far as Neil saw it: those who were worth his time, and those who were not, and if you were in the latter group he honestly couldn't care if you lived or died. Not that most people could tell which side of the line they fell on. There were even days that - I wasn't sure myself.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Sometimes, I remember, he would invite people over to his studio that I was *sure* he hated, for screenings of his original cuts. I was - quite jealous of this at the time, as I'd never got such an invitation. But it was probably for the best. I didn't realize it back then, but... _(sigh)_ Those guests... _(how do I say this)_ ...never quite looked the same afterwards. We stayed in touch over the next few years, even worked together on *The Wire Runner*, his one underwhelming foray into CGI. He even kept in contact when I left to have my baby. It wasn't planned, but while I may not have had much time for makeup and monster suits, the bodies inside of them were a... different matter.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Anyway, even once I'd sorted out childcare arrangements, I found myself... more and more unwelcome, in the industry. It wasn't that people weren't willing to *hire* me - by this point, I had a hell of a special effects resume - but the hours you were expected to be working, the way shoots were set up, the culture of drinking, networking - _(sigh)_ - none of it was really possible alongside parenting.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I only really heard about Neil's work from - what he told me. His disappointment at the director's limited vision for the irradiated creatures in *Eagle Falls*, or his satisfaction with his latest - and, as it turned out - last foray into horror, with *The Harvestmen*. He'd always had a fondness for spiders, he told me, and I of course reminded him that harvestmen weren't technically spiders.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It was around that time that he started to suffer his first symptoms. He told me later his greatest regret was not being able to finish his final film, an art house piece simply titled *Dancer*. He never explained what it was about, nor do I think it actually came out, in the end. By the time it was due to start shooting he'd already begun to seize up.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I became his carer a few months later. It just seemed to make sense. A frugal life, lucrative career, and prickly personality had left him with lots of money but no real support, while my life had left me in a position where I - cared deeply about his wellbeing and was in desperate need of money.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): Everything just - lined up so neatly.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I will say this once, and you can draw whatever conclusions you wish from it: Neil Lagorio did **not** have Parkinson's disease.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): He began to have difficulty moving, yes, but his mind remained razor-sharp at all times, and his growing immobility at no point seemed to cause him any pain, or discomfort. It was simply that, over the course of several years, he stopped being able to move under his own power. The doctors were never able to name it anything other than Parkinson's, and - I'll admit I'm no expert... But I know they were wrong.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): When it started, I was worried that Neil would take the loss of his work very hard. It had been all he was for so long, surely being unable to continue would devastate him. Instead, he threw himself into a new project, one I would never have expected, but that suited my engineering background perfectly: Neil had devised a series of frames, ropes, and pulleys, to be constructed in the rooms and corridors of his home. At the end of these ropes were hooks, which slotted into harnesses, again of his own design, that he wore on his wrists, his neck, his torso, and his legs. When properly built and attached, it allowed me to move him, without a wheelchair or my own support. I could stand him up, and walk him like a puppet.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I protested of course; this man was my *hero*; I loved him; and there was no way I could subject him to this - awful indignity. But my objections were ignored, as always, and Neil insisted that this was what he wanted.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): So I built that - strange contraption, using the skills I had developed across my whole life, to fill every corner of Neil Lagorio's house with wood and steel and cable. And when it was all done, and I pulled him through his first jerky, standing motions, it did seem to make him happy. Pulling on those levers and cords, moving him step by stiff-limbed step through his house - it was the first time I had seen Neil smile in years.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): And so that became our life. For almost a decade, I went to his home every day, strapped him up, and gradually puppeted my idol through whatever strange, parodied version of domestic life he desired.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I still had to feed him, had to wash him, but he would always insist that his arm be hoisted to his mouth before I fed him a sandwich, or that I correctly positioned him in the bath. And gradually the surreal gave way to the mundane, and it simply became our life. I barely even noticed when the harnesses were no longer necessary, when the loops for those hooks were now embedded directly into his body. I must have asked him about it, but at the time it just seemed like - such a natural progression.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): It was almost six months ago when the *woman* came to our door. She looked like a film student, and at first I took her for a fan. Neil's work wasn't the sort to attract adoring masses, but occasionally admirers would find their way to his home. Usually he'd send them away, but sometimes he'd have them wait in the atrium while I positioned him in his studio, ready for a short meeting or Q-and-A session.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): I was about to ask her to wait while I checked with him, but as I started to speak she turned her head, revealing a mass of white thread criss-crossing all over the side of her temple, standing starkly against the dark brown of her skin.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): She told me to sit down, and I did. I heard the levers and pulleys move behind me, and I could tell that Neil was being walked down the corridor towards this woman, but I couldn't see. I couldn't turn my head. So I don't really know what his reaction was. But it didn't sound like one of fear, or despair. He called her 'Annabelle,' and she sent me to his screening room. She told me I was to watch his original cuts. "Just until we're all done here," she said.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): And as I walked away from Neil, the last time I saw him alive, he was dancing, the cables shifting and moving him in a graceful, sweeping ballet.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): And he was crying with joy. I don't know how long I was watching those films. I don't - It was hard to keep track of time. According to my daughter, I was missing for five months. When Annabelle let me out, Neil was dead. He was hanging there, wrapped in his strings like a cocoon, twisting gently around, and around, and around.</span>

<span class="statement archivist-statement">ARCHIVIST (STATEMENT): She told me to take the films, *his* original cuts. She told me to come here. She told me to give them to you. I resisted for some time, but I'm done now. She's won. And I'd - very much like to go home.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(sharp intake of breath)_ Statement ends. _(exhale)_ Hm. Neil Lagorio. You ever see any of his work?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: No. Not really into films.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(overlapping)_ Mm, they were... Well, let's just say it's not a complete shock there was something unnatural to them. Didn't know we had copies in the Institute, though, let alone original cuts.</span>

##### [He laughs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Records indicate they ended up in... _(paper flips)_ Artefact Storage.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Probably best they stay there.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Yeah. _(inhale)_ Yes, of course.</span>

##### [Pause.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST (CONT'D): Annabelle Cane, though... She worries me - I - I don't know. This is the second time she's turned up, uh... Peripheral to the Institute?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: That you know of.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Meaning what?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(sigh)_ She's Web. Spider's sneaky like that. Like that lighter you're always using; where'd you get that?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Mm. Good point. We should keep our eyes open. Anyways - How's Basira doing? I haven't seen hr much since - _(inhale)_ Well, she seemed a bit *tense* the last few times we spoke. _(cautiously)_ How are you guys doing?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(overlapping, clears throat)_ No, Basira she's - she's been good. We're together, so it's good, _(sigh)_ if she didn't keep treating me like a china doll. _(inhale, exhale over speaking)_ But it's alright.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: That's understandable, I suppose.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(sigh)_ Yeah, well - _(sigh)_ What do *you* think? You think I'm weak, just - _(sigh)_ - 'cause I'm not already chasing the next kill? You think I'm less me?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I - _(sigh)_ I don't feel like I'm exactly in the best place to judge the intersection between free will and humanity. _(stuttering inhale)_ I'm still trying to figure that out myself.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Jon... When you went in the coffin, was it you choosing to do that? Did you *actually* think you could save me, or was that something telling you to do it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It was me. I was - drawn to it, I'll admit, but it was my decision. It wasn't entirely about you, though.</span>

##### [He sighs as he says those last words.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: What was it?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: My - _(large sigh)_ My memories of the coma are not clear, but I know I made a choice; I made a choice to become... something else. Because I was afraid to die. But ever since then, I - I don't know if I made the right decision; I'm stronger now, tougher, I can - _(he cuts himself off)_ If I *do* die now, or get sealed away somewhere forever? I don't know if that's a bad thing. And I don't want to lose anyone else, so if I can maybe - stop that happening, and the only danger is to *me*, I - I'll do it in a heartbeat; worst case scenario, the universe loses another monster.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: That's messed up.</span>

##### [The Archivist lets out a laugh.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(inhale)_ Yeah. I suppose it is.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Did you know the coffin wouldn't kill you?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I - guess I thought imprisonment wouldn't be as bad as it was.</span>

##### [Daisy sighs.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And it's a lot easier to make that choice than it is to actually endure the result; you might have noticed when I was in there with you I... I had regrets.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Yeah. I remember.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Plus I thought - _(pause, small sigh)_ Well, I didn't know what being down there had done to you.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(slight intake of breath)_ You thought I was gonna kill you?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It was a possibility.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Guess so.</span>

##### [A short pause, silent but for the Archivist's breathing.]

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Daisy.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Hm?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: It, uh - hm - Is it, uh - Weird question, but - I - _(sigh)_ I haven't seen you in my dreams? The last couple of weeks?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: *Oh*, ah - No, I - I work here now. Figured it seemed to protect the others, so -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh! Right, so you - wait, did you talk to Lukas, or...?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(overlapping, hah)_ Broke into Elias's old office, found an employment contract, filled it in, and signed it.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And that worked.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Seems so.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: And you're not... worried about -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Basira's trapped here. So are you. Not like I'm going anywhere anyway.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I suppose not. So... _(sigh)_ No more dreams.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Not of you and your *weird* eyes. Just the coffin.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Is that better?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(fierce)_ It's *mine*.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Right.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You need to stop moping.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(the picture of Edwardian offense)_ I *what*?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: You need to stop swanning around, being all sad.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I - I'm not *swanning around -*</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY (OVERLAPPING): Boo-hoo, I'm so alone and a monster.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: I *am* alone. Martin is -</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Busy doing paperwork. Not like he's dead. Besides, he's not the only other person here, you know. There's me, Melanie, Basira -</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Traumatized, traumatized, and paranoid becuase of me.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY : _(give me strength)_ Get over yourself! You're always talking about *choices;* we all made ours. Now I'm making a choice to get some drinks in. Coming?</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(wha?)_ I - I don't - I - _(slight pause, he grapples with the concept of friendship)_ Yeah, okay.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Melanie's out. But I'll go get Basira.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: _(sigh)_ Is she - W-Will she want to join us?</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(darkly)_ If she doesn't, I'll rip her throat out.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Uhhh...</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: It's a *joke*, Jon.</span>

<span class="archivist">ARCHIVIST: Oh. Haha! _(soft)_ Yes. I - I-I'll get my coat.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]


------


##### [INT. THERAPIST'S OFFICE]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="therapist">THERAPIST: Right, have a seat.</span>

##### [Immediately, we notice a large rush of background noise. It's not obvious what's making it up - it's very condensed - but it's definitely there. The therapist herself sounds very pleasant.]

<span class="therapist">THERAPIST: Do you mind if I record our sessions?</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I do mind, yes.</span>

<span class="therapist">THERAPIST: Ah, I mean, it's just for my own notes -</span>

<span class="melanie">MELANIE: I categorically, and completely, do *not* give consent for you to make *any* recording of me, **ever**. Turn it off. Please.</span>

<span class="therapist">THERAPIST: I - I see. Yes, of course.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]