---
layout:          post
title:           "MAG144 - #0090310 - Decrypted"
date:            2019-07-11 12:00:00 -0400
categories:      episode
tags:            [Gary Boylan, Martin Blackwood, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Peter Lukas, Mrs. Whitshore, Families, Parents, Fathers, Mothers, Sons, Grief, Money, Music, Codes, Technology, Electronics, Eschatophobia, Isolophobia, The Extinction, The Lonely]
statement_of:    [Gary Boylan]
recorder:        [Martin Blackwood]
voiced:          [Martin Blackwood, Alice 'Daisy' Tonner, Peter Lukas]
episode_title:   Decrypted
episode_number:  '144'
case_number:     '0090310'
statement_date:  2009-10-03
recording_date:  
event_date:      
summary:         "Statement of Gary Boylan, given October 3rd 2009\nAudio recording by Martin Blackwood "
content_flags:   [Depression, Poverty, Money, Isolation, Toxic family relationships, Environmental disaster]
acast_url:       https://play.acast.com/s/themagnusarchives/mag144-decrypted
pdf:             https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dZpQdN07UNZiBf9mPUsEJrdZWlc5zWGQ/view?usp=sharing
google_doc:      https://docs.google.com/document/d/1B70M5yCcca9B0VrZn8CDM2gZyio6oJN6AT0xD2M9QUs/edit?usp=sharing
official:        false
unofficial:      https://tmatranscripts.tumblr.com/post/186212766836/mag144-decrypted-case-0090310pdf
unofficial_name: tmatranscripts.tumblr.com
---

##### [INT. MAGNUS INSTITUTE, SOMEWHERE]

##### [TAPE CLICKS ON.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Martin Blackwood, _(sigh)_ Assistant to Peter Lukas, Head of the Magnus Institute, recording statement number 0090310, statement of, uh, Gary Boylan, given October 3rd, 2009. Statement begins.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): It was grey. I remember that so clearly. And hot. But no sun, no sun at all. The sky had that thick layer of clouds that - that catches the heat, and it choked me on it. Fields and fields of yellow grass that went on forever, with rusted pylons looming over all of it. It was that - that *appalling* sort of summer you only get in the middle of England, with all the joy of the season stripped away, leaving endless fields of dry soil and emptiness.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): There was nothing to be done, nowhere to go, just watch and wait, and think about the - decay of it all. Walking among the detrites of the countryside is the surest way I know to find yourself close to the *transience* of humanity, seeing the - little hints, the preview of what's to come for all of us, when the world no longer cares enough to keep us alive.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Have you ever been driving along a motorway, passing through the middle of some rural nothing place, when you spot, in the distance, on some tiny road you have no idea how to reach, a row of three or four terra-suburban houses, just *sitting* there, no town or village for miles, just a weird unattached little street? That's where I live. It's where I grew up, where I left forever, and... where I returned to after my mother died, and my business collapsed.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): The two events were unrelated, but - both happened close enough together that I ended up moving back in with my dad. I told myself it was to take care of him, but - _(heavy exhale)_ I'd been there five years before I knew it, and in a lot of ways, the old man seemed more capable of dealing with the world than me.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Not that he was supportive. God, no. He'd been a vet for most of his life, and spent a lot of that time working with livestock. I think all those years hanging around farmers must have rubbed off on him. He *hated* doctors, for instance, something I always pointed out was absurd, given his own job. I'd say he was a vet, and he'd say yeah, he was, and start talking about how many animals he'd put down in his career.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I never had any interest in continuing the conversation after that. He'd always been blunt, but after mum died - *god.* It was like his whole personality became callous.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I should have left him to himself, but there was something about that *dismal* little house, all alone except for Mrs Whitshore on one side, and the empty house that no one could sell on the other. Something kept me rooted there, sleeping in a bedroom that hadn't changed since I was fifteen, and caring for a man who I'd rather just *shut up*. _(sigh)_ We were both trapped there, I think. Bound together in a sort of wordless misery. I would look at him, and see a grim sort of destiny for myself: trapped here, until I became him; any future I might have had, sacrificed to his. _(long sigh)_ I always used to go for long walks through the fields to try and escape for a bit. I usually managed to walk for an hour and a half before my paranoia kicked in, and I started to worry that he'd have a - fall or something, and have to head back.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): An hour and a half was plenty, though, for all the places I could go. We were a long way from any real trails, and - _(inhale)_ - the most scenic things to see were rusted tractors, piles of discarded tires, or the huge metal skeleton of an old disconnected power pylon.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): It was a bleak and empty rural wasteland, and when the summer heat hit, without shade or shelter, it was almost as relentlessly oppressive as that old man. _(shaky inhale)_ But I still took my walks.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): It was this last August that it happened. I was about an hour into my walk, having had a row with him about his failing eyesight, a subject that made him even *more* defensive than usual; I was passing by an old cheap metal barn when I heard it. I'd been listening to music as I walked, when my iPod abruptly cut out. I stopped where I was, and took it out of my pocket, assuming I'd knocked it, or somehow turned it off. But the screen was on, apparently playing music, though I didn't recognize the song.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I got a pretty sizeable music collection, but I feel like I do know it pretty well. This one had no artist, no album, just the track name: "Numbers."</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): As I stared at it, I began to hear something from my headphones. It was a faint and tinny tone, like it was far off, or produced by a low-tech synthesizer or something. The tone began to shift, and I realized that it was playing a tune. It seemed to be a crude rendering of the opening lines of the - Skye boat song.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I only got through about a line and a half of the old folk melody before it abruptly cut off. There was a moment of silence, before it was replaced by a voice of a man - but his was so distorted and pitch-shifted that it could have been anyone. It barely even sounded human as it, as it spoke in a strange monotone.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Five. Nine. Three. Seven. Five. Six.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Now, I'm not an idiot. I've heard about number stations; I know all about the Lincolnshire Poacher and the Russian Man; I know they've all got perfectly normal explanations and real-world uses for - espionage and that. What that didn't explain is how a number station found its way onto *my* iPod.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I checked, and its radio wasn't even on. Seemed to be coming from my music player, though I had a look through my library, and couldn't find anything that matched it.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): The sky was still grey. The sweat dripped off me as I sat against a rotting fencepost, and the numbers kept coming.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Three. Zero. Five. Eight. Three. Nine. Two. Eight. Four. Six.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Eventually I staggered to my feet and began to make my way home. My footsteps were heavy, and my hands shook slightly as I tried to steady myself. Do you know that one of the symptoms of a heart attack is *literally* a sense of impending doom?</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Well, I wasn't having a heart attack, but - I think I know what they mean. What settled over me wasn't *dread*; there wasn't enough uncertainty for that; it was *doom.* I was certain that some sort of disaster was on the horizon.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I'd walked less than a hundred yards when the numbers stopped coming, and "London Calling" started playing again.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): That summer seemed to drag on forever. The *boredom* and irritation of trying to care for my dad was only heightened by the weather,and we were both feeling it. Just didn't have anything to *do*.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I don't really want to go into my living situation here, but - it's enough to say I wasn't working a regular job, and while I could, *theoretically*, contact my old mates, they'd all gotten on with their lives without me. The world had moved on. I was left behind.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I did do a bit of research into number stations, but I didn't find anything new. I did find a couple of clips online, though, which were enough to convince me that what I'd been hearing had been a number station, or at least a - passable imitation, although the voices on the proper recording sounded neutral, almost mechanical - very different to the grating distorted mess I had heard.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I couldn't get it out of my mind, though. What did it mean? What did any of it mean?</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Took about a week of searching to find it again. To be honest, at the time I didn't even realize I was looking for it. I just found myself going further and further afield, retracing old routes for the sake of it. Always with my music cranked up so loud, I couldn't hear the insects buzzing everywhere.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I couldn't have told you *why*. Not really. At least not until I heard it again: that same tinny rendition of the "Skye boat song." And then:</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Four. Seven. Four. Nine.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I stood there frozen for a moment, that strange feeling of doom returning in an instant. I checked my iPod, and, sure enough, the radio was off, and it said it was playing a track called "Numbers."</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): It was fainter than it had been before, though, harder to pick out the exact numbers in the distortion and the quiet, so I began to walk again, this time paying close attention to the volume and clarity of the sound.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): One. Six.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Fainter to the north.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Two. Eight.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Unchanged. Going south:</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Three. Zero.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Southeast was stronger:</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): One. Six.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): But began to weaken again after a mile or so.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Five. Zero.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): *Much* stronger around the eastern hill.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Four. Nine.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): *There!* The pylon. That was it. Except, obviously, that wasn't it. It wasn't a broadcast tower; there was nothing in or around it that could have possibly been sending out any signal. It was just a - collection of old and twisted metal bars, rising up into the half-collapsed power tower. It must have been *decades* since it had been anything other than a decaying steel obelisk.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Even if that hadn't been this case, this wasn't a broadcast; this was - this was - *inside* my iPod. It would have to be something else, something cutting-edge and new - but for miles around me was nothing but droning insects and dismal English summer!</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Nonetheless, when I stood in the center of the hollow beneath that pylon's rusted corpse, the numbers came through, crystal clear.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Five. Six. Four. Eight. Four. Six. Four. Seven. Four. Eight. Two. Seven.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): With each new number, my blood *pounded*, and my heart raced - th,though I didn't have the faintest idea what they might've meant. I'd actually brought a notebook and pen, I now realize, just to write down the numbers, and so I did.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Four hours I spent, patiently jotting down the numbers. The Skye boat song repeated every hour and half, but I went through the sequence a few times just to assure myself it didn't change, and I hadn't missed any.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): When I finally took out my headphones, the sudden rush of summer evening sounds hit me like a wave, leaving me reeling and dizzy. It took me a moment to realize how late it was, and how sunburned I had gotten in the process.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Everything ached, and my heart pounded as I limped home. I'd been out easily twice as long as any time before. But, my dad didn't say a word about it, just sat in front of the TV, laughing at some crappy panel show, smoking that god-awful pipe that left the wallpaper yellow and peeling.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I remember thinking he wasn't content to just destroy himself. He seemed to have to take out everything with him.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I didn't return to the pylon for a long time, except to confirm that the numbers weren't changing between days. I had them, though, and the numbers were all that mattered. I didn't know why; I'm sure there wasn't a reason, not really, but - I knew it was in there.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): Realistically, it would be impossible to decode it without whatever key the cipher might have been using, and honestly, for the longest time, it seemed to be. I did as much reading as I could on cryptography and - codebreaking, and all of it seemed to point me toward one simple conclusion: breaking this code by myself was - simply impossible.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): But I still tried. I spent weeks in my room, desperately applying every method I had available. Nothing worked. But I didn't stop. The alternative was looking after my dad, whose recent breathing issues had left him more ratty than ever.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): So, I worked myself into exhaustion instead, staring at those meaningless strings of numbers until I almost collapsed, and my eyes couldn't focus on anything. And that was when I realized: it wasn't the numbers. It wasn't the code. It was what was *behind* the numbers, shifting and waiting and, and coming towards me like a tidal wave, and *I knew what the message* *was*, the urgent and terrible message.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): About the destruction that was coming on the heels of mankind, about the cold and cruel warmongers who play games of code and conspiracy, hidden behind the endless streams of numbers.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): And within those numbers are all of our dooms. If you know how to read them. And I read them. I read them all, and saw the doom of everyone who lives and breathes and hopes for life and happiness.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I fled the house. I ran to the pylon, that ruined place that knew all of the numbers, and I fell to my knees and wept. I begged it to spare us, to spare me, as I stared at the flesh I knew would redden and bubble and blister away to the bone beneath.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): I didn't need headphones to hear the numbers now. They were pouring from the air around me and threaded through my mind, and no matter how I begged, they would not stop.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): When I returned, the house was in ruins, the windows shattered and broken, glass strewn across the floor. There was nothing left of my dad, save a charred shadow along the wall, scorched through the plaster, and into the now-exposed brick. All that was left of Mrs Whitshore was powdered bone.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): There are *terrible* things coming, things that, if we knew of them, would leave us weak and trembling, with shuddering terror at the knowledge that they are coming for *all of us.* We all made them, and their course is already plotted.</span>

<span class="statement martin-statement">MARTIN (STATEMENT): You can see them in the numbers. If you only learn how to read them.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Statement ends.</span>

##### [He clear his throat, takes a deep breath, lets it out quickly.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN (CONT'D): Right. Another - statement. Another side to Peter's Extinction. I think. I - Yeah, I, I couldn't follow some of his reasoning, but I think it was about nuclear weapons? In keeping with the theme, I suppose. </span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN (CONT'D): _(speaks as if intending his next words to be overheard)_ I just wish Peter would stop trying to convince me his new power is real, and more time telling me what he plans to **do** about it.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN (CONT'D): _(sigh)_ And where I fit in. I mean, *fine*, I guess I've li -</span>

##### [Knock-knock-knock on the door. Martin takes in a small, soft, startled gasp, waits in silence.]

##### [The knock-knock-knock comes again. Martin flips over the statement, then:]

<span class="martin">MARTIN (CONT'D): Come in.</span>

##### [The door opens.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Mind if I join you?</span>

##### [Martin starts writing something; the door closes in the background.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: They're back. I thought you might wanna know.</span>

##### [Martin keeps writing.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(inhale)_ Seems like it went smooth - too smooth for Basira, sounds like. _(small laugh)_ Keeps looking at Jon like she can't believe he made it back.</span>

##### [Martin keeps writing.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: I, uh, I mentioned our conversation to him; he asked me to [check on] -</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Just leave.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Sorry?</span>

##### [Martin inhales as if he's preparing himself for something.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Get out.</span>

<span class="daisy">DAISY: _(????)_ Oh. Right. Sorry; I didn't -</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: It's not difficult; just __get out__!</span>

##### [He keeps writing.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Fine! Fine. Just thought -</span>

##### [She opens the door; Martin goes off.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: No! No you didn't! We're not - We're not *friends*, Daisy! None of us are; we're all just trapped together, here, and, and kidding ourselves that we don't hate it. *Christ*, there are more important things than, than *feelings* right, now, alright, so just - leave me alone! For good.</span>

##### [During this, Daisy exhales. Loudly.]

<span class="daisy">DAISY: Right. You got it.</span>

##### [She leaves, door closing behind her. The second she's gone, Peter Lukas's trademark squeaky static comes in. There's an added stronger bass to it. Martin sighs.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Well?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(significantly less distressed than he'd sounded just a few moments earlier)_ I didn't do it for you.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: It's easier, this way. I'm sure you would have had no problems sending her away.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: _(nearly cutting him off)_ Yeah, well. It seems to be your go-to move for dealing with anyone.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: We. Are not. The *same*.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So what now?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [Short pause.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Yeah.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [Martin takes a really deep inhale and subsequent exhale: *Give me strength*.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I believe you.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: I mean I'm not about to start chanting stuff for you, but - the details you've given me all seem to check out. _(small sigh)_ So far.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: So what's our next step?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: And you?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: For me?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: ...But not from *you*.</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

<span class="martin">MARTIN: You're not just going to *tell* me, maybe?</span>

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [Martin sighs the longest sigh he ever did sigh.]

<span class="peter">PETER: I hate being a podcast character.</span>

##### [Martin sighs again, weary and longsuffering.]

<span class="martin">MARTIN: Fine.</span>

##### [TAPE CLICKS OFF.]